Siglum: b1919_08_13_von_RussellBertrand

Title: Von Bertrand Russell an Ludwig Wittgenstein, 13. 8. 1919

sourceDesc:  Original im BA. Publiziert (Cambridge Letters, S. 121ff.; WiC, S. 96f.).    Austria Innsbruck Forschungsinstitut Brenner-Archiv 11/26.6    

Text: 
TEL. 161 BATTERSEA.
70, OVERSTRAND MANSIONS,
PRINCE OF WALES ROAD,
BATTERSEA, S. W.
13 August 1919.
Dear Wittgenstein
I have now read your book twice carefully ‒ There are still points I don't understand ‒ some of them important ones ‒ I send you some queries on separate sheets. I am convinced you are right in your main contention, that logical props are tautologies, which are not true in the sense that substantial props are true. I do not understand why you are content with a purely ordinal theory of number, nor why you use for the purpose an ancestral relation, when you object to ancestral relations. This part of your work I want further explained. Also you do not state your reasons against classes. I am sure you are right in thinking the book of first-class importance. But in places it is obscure through brevity. I have a most intense desire to see you, to talk it over, as well as simply because I want to see you. But I can't get abroad as yet. Probably you will be free to come to England before I am free to go abroad. ‒ I will send back your MS when I know where to send it, but I am hoping you will soon be at liberty.
All best wishes. Do write again soon‒
Yours ever
B Russell.
Wittgenstein
2. What is the difference between Tatsache and Sachverhalt?
3. "Das logische Bild der Tatsachen ist der Gedanke." Yes, I agree. But a Gedanke is a Tatsache: what are its constituents & components, & what is their relation to those of the pictured Tatsache?
3.331. The theory of types, in my view, is a theory of correct symbolism: (a) a simple symbol must not be used to express anything complex; (b) more generally, a symbol must have the same structure as its meaning.
4 & 4.001. "Der Gedanke ist der sinnvolle Satz." "Die Gesamtheit der Sätze ist die Sprache." Does a Gedanke consist of words? Compare 3 (above).
4.112. I agree strongly with this number.
4.1272 I suppose this hangs together with the rejection of identity. It is awkward to be unable to speak of Nc'∇. One could still say (∃φ,x).N
              
or            
& I should have thought that from such props one could obtain a meaning for "there are at least 2 Gegenstände" → for you, "(∃x, y, φ) .φx . φy" would suffice. & similar statements. There are things that puzzle me in this number & the next.
4.211. I gather no elementary prop is negative.
4.51. It is necessary also to be given the prop that all elementary props are given.
5.15 This theory of probability seems to me right.
5.3 All props results of truth-operations on elementary props? How about generality?
5.453. No numbers in logic? why?
5.53 seq. on identity. I agree with this. But the connection with the axiom of infinity seems dubious. See remark on 4.1272 above.
6. "General truth-function: "
Yes, this is one way. But could one not do equally well by making  mean "at least one value of ξ is false", just as one can do equally well with
~p ∨ ~q & with ~p . ~q as fundamental? I feel as if the duality of generality & existence persisted covertly in your system.
6.03. "General form of integer: [ 0, ξ, ξ + 1]". You only get finite ordinals. You deny classes, so cardinals collapse. What happens to ℵ0? If you said classes were superfluous in logic I could imagine that I understood you, by supposing a distinction between logic & mathematics; but when you say they are unnecessary in mathematics I am puzzled. E.g. something true is expressed by . How do you re-state this prop?
6.123 seq. This is convincing to me.
I agree with what you say about induction, causality, etc.; at least, I can find no ground for disagreeing.

