Siglum: b1921_02_11_von_RussellBertrand

Title: Von Bertrand Russell an Ludwig Wittgenstein, 11. 2. 1921

sourceDesc:  Original im BA. Publiziert (Cambridge Letters, S. 165f.; WiC, S. 124).    Austria Innsbruck Forschungsinstitut Brenner-Archiv 11/26.18    

Text: 
Government University, Peking. 11.2. 21
My dear Wittgenstein ‒ I have been meaning to write to you ever since I got your letter of Sep. 20, which it gave me real happiness to get. I wonder how you like being an elementary school-teacher & how you get on with the boys ‒ It is honest work, perhaps as honest as there is, & everybody now-a-days is engaged in some form of humbug, which you escape from.
I like China & the Chinese ‒ They are lazy, good-natured, fond of laughter, very like nice children ‒ They are very kind & nice to me. All the nations set upon them & say they mustn't be allowed to enjoy life in their own way ‒ They will be forced to develop an army & navy, to dig up their coal & smelt their iron, whereas what they want to do is to make verses & paint pictures (very beautiful) & make strange music, exquisite but almost inaudible, on many-stringed instruments with green tassels. Miss Black & I live in a Chinese house, built round a courtyard; I send you a picture of me at the door of my study. My students are all Bolsheviks, because that is the fashion; they are annoyed with me for not being more of a Bolshevik myself. They are not advanced enough for mathematical logic; I lecture to them on Psychology, Philosophy, Politics & Einstein. Once in a way I have them to an evening party & they let off fire-works in the courtyard ‒ They like this better than lectures. ‒ I leave China in July, spend a month in Japan, & then come back to London ‒ 70 Overstrand Mansions, S. W. 11, will always find me.
Miss Black sends all sorts of messages ‒ Best love, my dear Ludwig ‒ I shall hope to see you again, perhaps next year ‒ I suppose by then it will be possible to travel to Trattenbach ‒ Be as happy as you can!
Ever yours affectionately
Bertrand Russell.

