Siglum: b1924_07_04_an_KeynesJohnMaynard_B

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an John Maynard Keynes, 4. 7. 1924

sourceDesc:  Original an der King's College Library in Cambridge; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Letters, S. 114f.; deutsch: Briefe, S. 141f.; Cambridge Letters, S. 205ff.). 

Text: 
Puchberg am Schneeberg
4.7.24.
My dear Keynes
Thanks awfully for sending me your books & for your letter dated 29./3.. I have postponed writing to you so long because I could not make up my mind as to whether to write to you in English or in German. Writing in German makes things easy for me difficult for you. On the other hand if I write in English I am affraid the whole business may become hopeless at my End allready. Whereas you might find somebody to translate a german letter to you. If I have said all I've got to say I'll end up in English.
Also: Zuerst möchte ich Ihnen noch einmal für die Bücher und Ihren lieben Brief danken. Da ich sehr beschäftigt bin und mein Gehirn für alles Wissenschaftliche ganz unaufnahmsfähig ist, so habe ich nur in einem der Bücher gelesen ("The economic consequences"). Es hat mich sehr interessiert, obwohl ich von dem Gegenstand natürlich so gut wie nichts verstehe. Sie schreiben, ob Sie etwas tun könnten, um mir wieder wissenschaftliches Arbeiten zu ermöglichen: Nein, in dieser Sache läßt sich nichts machen; denn ich habe selbst keinen starken inneren Trieb mehr zu solcher Beschäftigung. Alles was ich wirklich sagen mußte, habe ich gesagt und damit ist die Quelle vertrocknet. Das klingt sonderbar, aber es ist so, ‒ Gerne, sehr gerne möchte ich Sie wiedersehen; und ich weiß, daß Sie so gut waren, mir Geld für einen Aufenthalt in England zuzusichern. Wenn ich aber denke, daß ich von Ihrer Güte nun wirklich Gebrauch machen soll, so kommen mir allerlei Bedenken: Was soll ich in England tun? Soll ich nur kommen um Sie zu sehen und mich auf alle mögliche Weise zu zerstreuen? I mean to say shall I just come to be nice? Now I don't think at all that it isn't worth w[h]ile being nice ‒ if only I could be really nice ‒ or having a nice time ‒ if it were a very nice time indeed.
But staying in rooms and having tea with you every other day or so would not be nice enough. But then I should pay for this little niceness with the great disadvantage of seeing my short holladaies vanish like a phantom without having the least profit ‒ I don't mean money ‒ or getting any satisfaction from them. Of course staying in Cambridge with you is much nicer than staying in Vienna alone. But in Vienna I can collect my thoughts a little and allthough they are not worth collecting they are better than mere distraction.
Now it wouldn't seem impossible that I could get more out of you than a cup of tea every other day that's to say that I could really profit from hearing you and talking to you and in this case it would be worth w[h]ile coming over. But here again there are great difficulties: We haven't met since 11 years. I don't know if you have changed during that time, but I certainly have tremendously. I am sorry to say I am no better than I was, but I am different. And therefore if we shall meet you may find that the man who has come to see you isn't really the one you meant to invite. There is no doubt that, even if we can make ourselves understood to one another, a chat or two will not be sufficient for the purpose, and that the result of our meeting will be disapointment and disgu[s]ts on your side and disgust and despair on mine. ‒ Had I any definite work to do in England and were it to sweep the streets or to clean anybodys boots I would come over with great pleasure and then nicety could come by itself in course.
There would be a lot more to say about the subject but it's too difficult to express it either in English or in German. So I'd better make an end. I thought when I began to write that I should write this letter alltogether in German but, extraordinarily enough, it has prooved more natural for me to write to you in broken English than in correct German.
Herzliche Grüße! Yours ever
Ludwig Wittgenstein
P.S.
Please give my love to Johnson if you see him.

