Siglum: b1925_03_10_an_EcclesWilliam

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an William Eccles, 10. 3. 1925

sourceDesc:  Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Eccles, S. 60f.; deutsch: Briefe, S. 147f.). 

Text: 
10.3.25
Dear Eccles,
I was more than pleased to hear from you! For some reason or other I was convinced that you either were killed in the war or, if alive, that you would hate Germans & Austrians so much that you would have no more intercourse with me. This seems extraordinary because my Cambridge friends are still writing to me & I to them, and the book which ‒ as you perhaps remember ‒ I started writing before the war, was published three or four years ago in England. (It's called "Tractatus logico-philosophicus“ and has been printed by Trench, Trubner & Co. London). This shows you that I'm alive. About the various events of my life I will not write now (I would have to write a book) except that at present I am elementary school teacher in the place you addressed your letter to. I am awfully anxious to hear from you & all about you. Are Dr & Mrs Moore still alive? If so, please remember me to them and in fact to everybody who doesn't mind remembering me. I wish I could see you again before long. But when & where we can meet God knows. Perhaps we might manage to meet during the summer vacation, but I haven't got much time and no money to come to England as I have given away all my money about 6 years ago. Last summer I should have come to England to see a friend of mine Mr Keynes (whose name you may know) in Cambridge. He would have paid my expenses, but I resolved after all not to come, because I was so much afraid that the long time and the great events (external & internal) that ly between us would prevent us from understanding one another. However now ‒ or at least today ‒ I feel as if I might still be able to make myself understood to my old friends and if I get any oportunity, I might ‒ w.w.p. ‒ come and see you at Manchester.
In any case please write to me soon & long. Please excuse my faulty English; I haven't even got a dictionary to look up words & correct the spelling.
Yours ever
Ludwig Wittgenstein
Otterthal Post Kirchberg am Wechsel
Nieder-Österreich
Austria

