Siglum: b1922_05_01_von_OgdenCharlesKay

Title: Von Charles Kay Ogden an Ludwig Wittgenstein, 1. 5. 1922

sourceDesc:  Original im BA.    Austria Innsbruck Forschungsinstitut Brenner-Archiv 11/24.3    

Text: 
The Cambridge Magazine
CAMBRIDGE, CAMBRIDGE CIRCUS, AND CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
6 King's Parade,
Cambridge.
May 1 1922
Dear Wittgenstein,
Many thanks for your careful revision. I have been through half the notes, & will finish them tomorrow. There will then be about a dozen places where we want to deviate verbally from your corrections, and will send these.
In the meantime, we are all agreed that it is a very great pity those Ergänzungen are not there. This is the first I have heard of them Russell said nothing about them, and Ostwald is clearly hopeless. If he had them he has lost them. Doubtless your Vienna copy of which you spoke has them.
Can you not send them to me [registered] with basis of a translation if you can manage it, as your English is so good!
Any typing at our expense, if you will let us have the account; it is easier for printers to read, but if Trattenbach has no "typists" dont risk the posts & delay to Vienna but send in M.S. straight here. I look forward to them as early as possible.
The book is a little short as it is in any case; & the supplements would be welcome quite apart from our desire to see & print them for further elucidation.
Yours sincerely
C. K. Ogden
P.S. You have taken away the title from the first page With no title either for the English or the German(?), and Russell's Introduction between the Preface (or at any rate the title-page) and N° 1 this will be very odd.
We can put Russell's Introduction before your Preface & put the title above the word Preface if you like; or do you mean to have only the German title on the left-hand page?
P.S. The post office is closed & I am sending this not registered as I shall write again tomorrow; but we should like the Supplements as soon as possible. I forgot to say that Johnson's Logic Part I appeared last autumn (16/-) and Part II last week. (14/-)
Part III is promised for later.
It has been well "received" & the old man is very pleased with himself. But apart from the suggestion in "Determinables" (Part I) & "Distension" Magnitudes Part II, it does not deviate much from the traditional formal syllogistic matter.

