Siglum: b1922_05_05_an_OgdenCharlesKay

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Charles Kay Ogden, 5. 5. 1922

sourceDesc:  Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Ogden, S. 46f.). 

Text: 
5.5.22.
Dear Ogden,
I am very sorry indeed I cannot send you the supplements. There can be no thought of printing them. What they contain is this: When I had finished the book roughly there remained certain props ‒ about a hundred ‒ about which I was doubtful whether I should take them in or not. These props were ‒ partly ‒ different versions of t[h]ose now contained in the book; for it had often happened that I had written down a prop in many different forms, when the same thought had occurred to me in different ways during the long time I worked at that business. Another part of the supplements are merely sketches of props which I thought I might some day take up again if their thoughts should ever revive in me. That means: The supplements are exactely what must not be printed. Besides they realy contain no elucidations at all, but are still less clear than the rest of my props. As to the shortness of the book I'm awfully sorry for it; but what can I do?! If you were to squeeze me out like a lemon you would get nothing more out of me. To let you print the Ergänzungen would be no remedy. It would be just as if you had gone to a joiner and ordered a table and he had made the table to short and now would sell you the shavings and sawdust and other rubish along with the table to make up for its shortness. (Rather than print the Ergänzungen to make the book fatter leave a dozen of white sheets for the reader to swear intoo when he has purchased the book and cann't understand it.)
The title of the book must ‒ I think ‒ be printed twice: Once in front of the whole book and then again before my preface (as you suggested). Thus the succession would be:
   Title (only English)   Russell's Introduction   Title (again) } (in the english as well as in the translation)   Dedication Motto This is the part I am responsible for and therefore must be left together   Preface   No 1 etc.   
I was very interested to hear that Johnson's book has appeared (I like Johnson very much.) And I should like to see his book. Perhaps it will be possible someday. ‒ So don't be angry that I cannot make my book biger. I would if I could.
Yours sincerely
L. Wittgenstein

