Siglum: b1933_12_11_an_WatsonWilliamHeriot

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an William Heriot Watson, 12. 11. [1933]

sourceDesc:  Abschrift McGuinness.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 216). 

Text: 
Dec. 11th
My dear Watson,
Thanks so much for your letter dated Oct. 22nd and please forgive me for replying so late. I was not feeling well the first fortnight of the term and very busy afterwards. I had done a fair amount of work during the long vac. and rather overworked myself. When I came up I found I was incapable of doing a stroke of work. So after some doubts I decided to take a week off and went for a walking tour preventing myself entirely from thinking of my work for the whole week. After returning here I found that I could work again though not very well but after another fortnight I was able to do proper work. Thank God! - I did not look at the Physical Review and won't do so because I must save my powers which are very small for my real work and not let things distract me which are neither rest nor really important.
Please don't send me your manuscript. I shouldn't be able to look at it. I should very much like to see you and discuss things with you, but I'm no good at reading!. It strains me enormously and I get nowhere. As I say, I wish I could come over sometime and discuss things.
I am lecturing a good deal and have adopted a method which I think is the right one for me. I explain things to my pupils and then dictate to them short formulations of what we've been discussing and of the results. These are then typed and duplicated so that each man can get a clean copy. In case you should be interested to have a copy so as to see what we're doing just let me know.
I think that a man I've once met in Cambridge and thought very nice indeed has become Professor of Philosophy at McGill University. His name is McLenan (I don't know if I spell it right). Do you know him?
Please let me hear from you soon. I wish you and your family a happy Christmas and New Year.
Yours ever
Ludwig Wittgenstein

