Siglum: b1936_10_00_an_MooreGeorgeEdward

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an George Edward Moore, [Oktober 1936]

sourceDesc:  Original bei Timothy Moore; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Letters, S. 166f.; deutsch: Briefe, S. 199f.; Cambridge Letters, S. 280f.; WiC, S. 255f.). 

Text: 
Wednesday
Dear Moore,
I was very glad to get your letter. My house is not built on the site you mean. This map will show you where it is & why I can't get into the
 Zeichnung; skizzenhafte Darstellung der Umgebung von Wittgensteins Haus in Norwegen  
village without rowing; for the Mountain is much too steep for anyone to walk on it along the lake. I do believe that it was the right thing for me to come here thank God. I can't imagine that I could have worked anywhere as I do here. It's the quiet &, perhaps, the wonderful scenery; I mean, its quiet seriousness.
I am sorry to hear that your work hasn't been going well, or satisfactorily. I'm sure somehow that you're doing good work, & at the same time I think I can understand, why you don't get "anything finally written". That, I think, shows that what you're doing is right. I don't mean that it would be wrong however if you got anything finally written & in fact I hope you will.
Rhees' case is, of course, quite different, but here too I can't help feeling that it's not bad, in fact that it's good that he found himself unable to write anything. Please, if you see him, remember me to him & tell him that I was glad to hear that he could not get anything written. That's a good sign. One can't drink wine while it ferments, but that it's fermenting shows that it isn't dish-water. You see, I still make beautifull similes. ‒ Tell Rhees that I'm not glad because I'm malicious.
We have had the most wonderfull weather for the last 4 weeks, though it's already getting cold. The waterfalls are entirely frozen & it's about -3°C. at nights. But I don't suffer from the cold as I would in England, for it's dry.
Remember me to Mrs Moore & to Hardy & Littlewood if you should see them.
Yours
Ludwig Wittgenstein

