Siglum: b1933_12_22_an_StevensonCharlesLeslie

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Charles Leslie Stevenson, 22. 12. 1933

sourceDesc:  Original an der Bentley Historical Library der Universität Michigan; Kopie im BA.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 218). 

Text: 
22.12.33.
Dear Stevenson,
(I hope you don't mind my waiving the "Mr") Thanks so much for your letter. I was very pleased to have it. I'm sorry you must do a lot of reading of the history of philosophy for it will hardly help you to clear up your own muddles. Really to understand other peoples thoughts or to learn from their confusions is enormously difficult, especially if they lived long ago & talked a philosophical language which isn't your own. The only thing to do is always to tell yourself that you don't understand what exactly they were at. If ever you've had a real thought yourself you'll know that it will be difficult for others to understand it exactly, & then you'll also know that it is difficult for you to understand other peoples thoughts. I know that, as a professor of philosophy, you've got to profess to understand what everyone meant when they said.... But you aren't a professor, & so just enjoy your freedom!
As to our discussions last year it is true that I sometimes felt a little worried about the development you'ld take in the future. I mean, whether you'ld stick to philosophy in a really serious way. For I know that the temptations to shallowness are immense unless you live very isolated; & even then they are immense. The general standard of accur[acy] & thoroughness of thought in philosophy is so extremely low that anyone who is capable of seeing through a few confusions in his neighbours' thoughts is easily led into thinking that he's allri[ght] as he obviously is no worse than many of the celebrated philosophers around him. I hope that you'll be able to carry a decent standard about with you, & not care a damn how badly other people do their job.
It was a great pleasure for me to read the kind words which you said about me in your letter. For, although they showd me that you overestimate me enormously yet they told me that I was of some use to you. And y[ou] cann't do anyone a greater favour than telling him that he is of some use.
Please let me hear from you again before long if you aren['t] too busy. I'll be interested in everything you may write.
Please remember me to Mrs Stev[enson.] I hope that the three of you are going to have a happy Christ[mas] & New Year.
Yours sincerely
Ludwig Wittgenstein

