Siglum: b1935_11_28_an_RussellBertrand

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Bertrand Russell, [vor 28. 11. 1935]

sourceDesc:  Original in The Bertrand Russell Archives der McMaster University; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Letters, S. 103f.; deutsch: Briefe, S. 194ff.; Cambridge Letters, S. 271f.; WiC, S. 252). 

Text: 
Trin. Coll.
Sunday
Dear Russell,
I'm in a slight difficulty: I gather that you're coming up to read a paper to the Moral Sc. Club on the 28th. Now it would be the natural thing for me to attend the meeting & take part in the discussion. ‒ But: ‒ a) I gave up coming to the Mor. Sc. Cl. 4 years ago; people then more or less objected to me for talking too much in their discussions. b) At the meeting there will be Broad, who, I believe, objects most strongly to me. On the other hand (c), if I am to discuss at all it will ‒ in all likelyhood ‒ be the only natural thing for me to say a good deal, i.e., to speak for a considerable time. d) Even if I speak a good deal I shall probably find that it's hopeless to explain things in such a meeting.
There are therefore the following possibilities: a) I don't come to the meeting at all ‒ This is obviously right, unless you definitely want me to come.
b) I could come but take no part in the discussion. This too is all right with me, if it is what you want me to do. c) I come & speak up whenever you want me to, i.e, whenever you say so.
You may not quite understand my point of view. It is, roughly, this: If I felt that I had to make a stand against something & that I could do it with any chance of success I would do it, Broad or no Broad. But as it is, I feel like someone who's intruding on a teaparty in which some people don't care to have him. If, on the other hand, you wished me to be there & to speak (in my natural way, of course) then it would be as if the host wanted me to be at the teaparty, & in this case I wouldn't care whether any of the guests objected. ‒ If I don't come to the Mor. Sc. Club some of the members & I could still have a discussion with you the next day in my room, or just you & I.
I should be glad if you'ld write to me a line about this. (Provided that you don't think what I wrote some sort of polite nonsense or fishing for compliments; etc.) We also could decide what is the right thing to do just before the meeting, if I could see you for a minute then.
I am pleased that you're reading my M.S.. But please don't think, it's in any way necessary. You need neither write nor speak a review about it. I know that it isn't as good as it ought to be &, on the other hand, that it might be still worse.
Yours ever
Ludwig Wittgenstein

