Siglum: b1938_03_26_an_PattissonGilbert

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Gilbert Pattisson, 26. 3. 1938

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. 

Text: 
81 East Rd
Cambridge
26.3.38
Motto: All the perfumes of Arabia...
Dear Gilbert,
I know I'm bombarding you with letters. Here is another letter from Keynes I received just now. I want to make a few remarks about it.
a) His writing to the Home Office for forms before giving me an introduction to his solicitor is, I should say, nonsense. He seems in some way disinclined to give me this introduction.
b) What he writes about a grant of 25 £ from the Academic Assistance Council won't do either. I wrote to him 2 days ago that I had told Prof. Moore that I had plenty of money & that all that mattered was that the University should invite me to lecture & possibly give me some tiny salary, say 5 £ a term (or less) because I don't need the money, except in order to be able to say that I'm having a salaried job. ‒ The 'Academic Assistance Council' is a body who helpes people, say refugees, who have no money, & accepting these assistance would not only not be fair of me but also place me in an entirely wrong category.
c) There is something to be said for waiting with my application for naturalisation until I had got a job at Cambridge; & it is this that the University will have to apply to the Home Office for a permission for me to take a job in this country. Now if my application for naturalisation reaches the Home Office after the University's application the Home Office will already know me in a sense & know that people at Cambridge want to have me there; & this may help me. The cutting which Keynes sends me seems to give me more time than I thought I had if what the paper writes is reliable.
Now what I want you to do is, as it were, to smell to this letter of Keynes' & tell me whether I should wait for his sending me an introduction to his solicitor, or write to him thanking him for taking all this trouble & saying that I would now proceed on my own.
My reason for thinking that it might be wiser not to wait for an introduction from Keynes to his solicitor is that I have a vague fear that this introduction, if slightly wrongly worded, might make things in a way more awkward for me; it may, for instance, represent me as a refugee of sorts & stress a wrong aspect of the business. Perhaps this is all bosh, but I must say that I have a suspicion that Keynes may give it that turn not out of malice, of course.
Now could you do the following: In case this letter reaches you today in good time, read it, smell to Keynes' letter, & if you think I ought not to wait send me a telegram "come to London" (or something of the sort) & I shall then come on Monday morning or possibly tomorrow, if you care to go to a cinema with me. Please dont destroy Keynes' letter & keep mine too.
In the present damp weather I think it is good to rap up my letters in a silver watertight cover.
So long!
With blood
Ludwig
If you think there's no hurry wire nothing or the words "no hurry"

