Siglum: b1949_03_16_an_RheesRush

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Rush Rhees, 16. 3. 1949

sourceDesc:  Original an der ÖNB (Autogr. 1286/20-2); Kopie im BA.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 439). 

Text: 
16.3.49
Ross's Hotel
Parkgate Street
Dublin
Dear Rhees,
Thanks for your kind letter of March 13th. I'm afraid you were right: my illness lasted much longer than I had expected, & even now I haven't completely regained my former strength. When it was at it's hight I had the news that my eldest sister had suddenly to be operated on cancer. The operation was successful & the doctors said that she might live 2 or 3 years, but a few weeks after the operation she had a slight stroke & a worse one after that, & now she is dieing. She has no pain but she is getting weaker & weaker, & is sleeping most of the time. My two other sisters who are with her think that my coming would only upset her. I told them, of course, that if there were the slightest chance of my eldest sister wishing to see me they should send me a medical certificate & I could be in Vienna within a week. It would be no sacrifice for me to go. ‒ My work went fairly well, & sometimes even very well, in all this time; I was too ill to work for only 4 or 5 days; but about a fortnight ago I almost suddenly became exhausted, my ideas petered out, & now I'm completely incapable of thinking about philosophy. This doesnt necessarily mean that I couldn't discuss philosophy, but I can't write. God knows if I'll ever be able to work again, but I feel that I'll certainly not be able to work soon. Perhaps a holiday of a couple of months would make me fit again. Ten days ago Richards came here for a week & we went to Ho[w]th together & spent the week there. It was very enjoyable, but the weather was mostly foul 'e.g. cold East wind & damp & windy' Richards left yesterday. ‒ Nothing has changed about Drury. He is as busy as before, or busier still, & there seems no hope of any change. We've never been further than the Zoo together. ‒ He has passed his exam of course & is now second in command at the hospital, next to Dr Moore. His room, however, is just as it was, only there is now a better electric fire in it. ‒ I don't know at all what my movements in the near or far future will be. I may go to Vienna, or I may stay here, or I may for a time go to England & in that case I hope to see you, but I don't know anything at present. ‒ The Malcolms invited me over to America (Ithaca N. Y.). Perhaps one day I'll go, but I'm unable just now to decide anything. ‒ I should very much like to see you & have talks with you. As soon as I know anything I'll let you know. I can well believe that you aren't going to Birmingham for your pleasure. Of course it's conceivable that they'll do something decent there, but I confess I can't imagine it. I don't trust Mr Duncan Jones.
Well, so long! & good luck! I know you wish me the same.
As always
L. Wittgenstein

