Siglum: b1948_06_05_an_MalcolmLeonida

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Leonida Malcolm, 5. 6. 1948

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 110). 

Text: 
Rosro Cottage
Renvyle P.O.
Co Galway Eire
5.6.48.
Dear Lee,
I discovered your kind letter this morning & might not have seen it for a long time if I hadn't opened this particular detective mag.. Thanks a lot for inviting me. It's good to know that you won't mind taking me in once the time is ripe. But it isn't now. You see, my main source of trouble is myself &, unfortunately, that would accompany me wherever I go. I'm much better now than before I came here. My health is as fine as can be expected of an old codger, & the things that I'm always inclined to beef about are necessary evils. My work, e.g., is only so-so; but then my talent is only that size & I'm getting a bit shop worn & nothing can help this. I often get exasperated about it but I just must (or ought to) learn to bear it. The solitude here is often a strain, but it's also a blessing; that I have to do all my housework is a great strain, but it's undoubtedly a great blessing, too, because it keeps me sane, it forces me to live a regular life & is in general good for me although I curse it every day. The truth is I oughtn't to be such an old woman & complain such a lot; but then that's also one of the things that can't be changed. ‒ But I hope, [seriously], to come & stay with you one day when I'll be riper for it. (Of course you know that some apples never get ripe: they're hard & sour until they get soft & mushy.) ‒ The country around here is pretty wild & I enjoy walking in it though I don't go for long walks. I like looking at the various sea birds; we have also seals, though I've only seen one so far. I see nobody exept the man who brings me my milk every day. He also helps around the house a little & sees that I don't run out of turf (that's what we heat & cook with). He's quite nice & certainly better company than the people I stayed with in Co Wicklow. The nearest village is 10 miles away. When I want anything special in the way of groceries I write to Galway & they send it here by post. ‒ I hope Fate will let me stay with you some day, & I'm sure I'll enjoy it hugely, I also hope that then I might be useful in discussion (now I'm too stale).
Affectionately
Ludwig

