Siglum: b1947_03_28_an_WisdomJohn

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an John Wisdom, 28. 3. 1947

sourceDesc:  Abschrift McGuinness.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 408). 

Text: 
Trinity College 
Cambridge 
28.3.47 
Dear Wisdom,
I enclose an article of about 120 words for the Encyclopedia, as I believe it ought to be written. I will in what follows justify it’s deviations from your drafts.
1) Your remark that I influenced the Vienna Circle between 1920 & 1928 is wrong. I didn’t even know of their existence till 1925 & had practically no philosophical discussion with any of them before 1929, when I began to have a great many, whenever I was in Vienna on holiday. 
2) What you write about the contents of Tr.L.Ph. can’t give anyone any idea of it &, in fact, it can’t be done in a few lines at all. Nor I believe is it necessary as the book is printed.
3) I started lecturing in 1929, though then without any University post. I don’t think my exact status can interest readers of the Encyclopedia much. But I leave this to you.
4) The title of my chair is Professorship of ‘Philosophy’ pure & simple. I put it in inverted commas to show that it is a title & that I am not the only Prof. of philosophy here.
5) To say what sort of work I did after 1929, & not just that I was ‘impressed by’ something or that my work led to something, is absolutely essential; & without it it would, in my opinion, be wrong, because misleading, to print this article. Also the remark that my researches are the subject of my lectures is essential. Without these statements I would consider the article unfair to me, & I hope & believe that in your heart you’ld like to be fair to me.
I have, as I wanted an impartial judgement, shown your drafts to Moore & discussed my proposed alternative with him. He agreed with me on every point without reserve.
If you think that the article in the form I wrote it is all right, please send it to the Chambers people. If you don’t approve of it I’ld rather it weren’t published at all.
I wish you good thoughts & good feelings.
Yours 
Ludwig Wittgenstein 

