Siglum: b1949_02_18_an_MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Norman Malcolm, 18. 2. 1949

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 115f.; WiC, S. 438). 

Text: 
18.2.49.
Ross's Hotel
Parkgate Street
Dublin
Dear Norman,
Thanks for your letter. I'm glad you got the book. Somehow I'd been certain that they hadn't sent it to you. ‒ But what a queer thing to write "It's terribly nice of you to think of us"! You couldn't have thought at all when you wrote that. ‒ Now as to Moore: ‒ I don't really understand Moore, &, therefore, what I'll say may be quite wrong. But this is what I'm inclined to say: ‒ That Moore is in some sense extraordinarily childlike is obvious, & the remark you quoted (about vanity) is certainly an example of that childlikeness. There is also a certain innocence about Moore; he is, e.g., completely unvain. As to it's being to his "credit" to be childlike, ‒ I can't understand that; unless it's also to a child's credit. For you aren't talking of the innocence a man has fought for, but of an innocence which comes from a natural absence of a temptation. ‒ I believe that all you wanted to say was that you liked, or even loved, Moore's childlikeness. And that I can understand. ‒ I think that our discrepancy here is not so much one of thoughts as of feelings. I like & greatly respect Moore, but that's all. He doesn't warm my heart (or very little), because what warms my heart most is human kindness, & Moore ‒ just like a child ‒ is not kind. He is kindly & he can be charming & nice to those he likes & he has great depth. ‒ That's how it seems to me. If I'm wrong, I'm wrong. ‒ My work is still going fairly well, though not as well as, say, 6 weeks ago. That's partly due to the fact that I've been a bit ill, & also that a number of things are really worrying me. ‒ Money is not one of them. I am, of course, spending rather a lot, but I'll have enough for another 2 years, I think. During that time, God being willing, I'll get some work done; & that, after all, was why I resigned my professorship. I mustn't worry about money now, for if I did I couldn't work. (What will happen after that time I don't yet know. Maybe I won't live that long anyway.) ‒ One of my present worries is the health of one of my sisters in Vienna. She was operated on cancer a short time ago & the operation, as far as it went, was successful, but she won't have long to live. For that reason I intend to go to Vienna sometime next spring; & that's got something to do with you, because if I go & come back to England afterwards I intend to dictate the stuff that I've been writing since last autumn, & if I do, I'll send you a copy. May it act as manure on your field.
Give all my good wishes to Lee & Raymond. (I wish he'd always remain good-natured. But I know that's a tall order.) So long!
Affectionately
Ludwig

