Siglum: b1947_10_10_an_SraffaPiero

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Piero Sraffa, 10. 10. 1947

sourceDesc:  Abschrift McGuinness, Kopie in BA.  Publiziert in (WiC, S. 416). 

Text: 
Trin. Coll. Camb. 
10.10.47 
Dear Sraffa,
When I left your room this morning I had a strong & extremely queer impression. – As you know some years ago we were what I should have called “friends”. About our frequent conversations, their difficulties & their good effects I needn’t talk; you know all that. Then came a time when I got more & more on your nerves & our conversations became less fruitful. You, very naturally, reacted with a certain violence & rudeness, & in consequence of this, & of outward circumstances, we met less & less frequently. Your final really rude outbursts (about 194[1?] I think) hurt me & angered me a great deal. After a longish time, very gradually my feeling changed[.?] I began to expect a certain unfriendliness from you & my feeling of friendship cooled off, particularly when I seemed to discover that you were no longer wishing to he helpful when I came to you for advice, etc.. For, gradually, you seemed to me to become a Trinity Don: stiff, stand-offish & unfriendly. For a long time I couldn’t believe in that change. I always told myself that all that happened was that I increasingly got on your nerves. But this didn’t seem completely to explain your behaviour. For people – unless one distinctly dislikes them – don’t get on one’s nerves very much if one only sees them for a few minutes at long intervals. – I remember, e.g., seeing you once in the Katalogue room of the university Library. You were looking at the little floor map in the middle & I approached you saying a few words to you (I don’t know what about). You made me some sign by words & looks to the effect that you didn’t wish to be interrupted at the moment (I take it there was something you were afraid you might forget). But the point is this: The gesture, the tone & the look you used were exactly those of an irritated schoolmaster trying to tell an irritating boy not to disturb him. It strucks me very strongly. And it seems to me most extraordinary, because you obviously are a man of good & polite manners. – Now your behaviour this morning was of the same – to me inexplicable – terrible rudeness. It did not hurt me, but it was, of course, very disagreable. And I thought, I might as well tell you about it, all the more as I’m leaving Cambridge. Because I hope you won’t misunderstand me & think that I’m complaining about it. What I want to say is this. If you have, for whatever reason, taken a strong dislike to me (which I would understand) then your behaviour, though certainly nasty, is quite understandible & not anything alarming. If, on the other hand, though not particularly liking me, you don’t particularly dislike me either, your behaviour seems to me most alarming. I should like to say in this case: Please see that you don’t become completely inhuman! – This letter, though it may be all wrong, is certainly not written in a vindictive mood; but I feel as if I had seen something sinister, & I want to tell you about it.
Yours 
Ludwig Wittgenstein 

