Siglum: b1947_12_22_an_WrightGeorgHenrikVon

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Georg Henrik von Wright, 22. 12. 1947

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (von Wright, S. 58; WiC, S. 420). 

Text: 
c/o Mrs Kingston
Kilpatrick House
Red Cross
Wicklow
Eire
22.12.47
Dear v. Wright,
Thank you for your X-mas letter. A day or two ago I sent you a card. As you see form the above address I'm not solitary. This is a big sort of farm & they take guests in summer but not during the winter, & so I'm alone with the family. They are very quiet, I have my meals in my room & am very little disturbed. Still, I could do with greater loneliness & I intend to exchange this place for a more lonely one later in the year. Red Cross is a village but the farm is about 2 miles outside it & fairly isolated. I am working a fair amount. Not too bad ‒ & not too good. Heaven knows if I'll ever publish this work, but I should like you to look at it after my death if you survive me. There is a good deal of hard thinking in it. I feel a good deal better here than in Cambridge.
What you write about not intending to apply for the professorship in Cambridge I understand perfectly, & I had assumed before you wrote to me that you'd not apply. The chief reason why I thought it was, that the prospect of becoming English, or a refugee in England, seemed to me anything but attractive in our time, & I thought that you would certainly not wish to bring up your children in England. I hope for your sake you won't be compelled to do so; though for Cambridge it would be lucky, unless Cambridge were to drag you down, which, however, I don't assume.
'Der Schmetterling' is, in part, marvelous e. g. the end when he comes home ‒ "Es war ein lustiges Schneegestöber bei nördlichem Winde ...".
I read hardly anything: a few detective stories & some other things I've already read many times. Real reading is always bad for me.
I have a close friend in Dublin (about 2½ - 3 hours journey from here) whom I can see about once a month. Whether I'll go to Norway again I don't know at all. ‒ Thanks for the cutting. I think I know where the Steinlavine must have gone down. I hope nothing has happened to any of the people I know!
I wish you good thoughts & good feelings & that nothing shall make you shallow. I hope somehow to see you again some day before so very long.
Ludwig Wittgenstein
P.S. On looking at your address I see that I made a mistake on the envelope of my X-mas card I wrote 77 instead of 7. I wonder if you'll get it.

