Siglum: b1944_11_16_an_MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Norman Malcolm, 16. 11. 1944

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 93f.; WiC, S. 370). 

Text: 
Trinity College
Cambridge
16.11.44.
My dear Malcolm,
Thanks for your letter, dated Nov. 12th which arrived this morning. I was glad [to] get it. I thought you had almost forg[otten] me, or perhaps wished to forget me. I had a particular reason for thinking this. Whenever I thought of you I couldn't help thinking of a particular incident which seemed to me very important. You & I were walking along the river towards the railway bridge & we had a heated discussion in which you made a remark about "national char[a]cter" that shocked me by it's primitiveness. I then thought: what is the use of studying philosophy if all that it does for you is to enable you to talk with some plausibility about some abstruse questions of logic etc., & if it does not impr[ove] your thinking about the important questions of everyday life, if it doe[s] not make you more conscientious than any ..... journalist in the use of the dangerous phrases such people use for there own ends. You see, I know that it's difficult to think well about 'certainty', 'probability', 'perception', etc. But it is, if possible, still more difficult to think, or try to think, really honestly about your life & other peoples lives. And the trouble is that thinking about these things is not thrilling, but often downright nasty. And when it's nasty then it's most important. ‒ Let me stop preaching. What I wanted to say was this: I'ld very much like to see you again; but if we meet it would be wrong to avoid talking about serious non-philosophical things. Being timid I don't like clashes, & particularly not with people I like. But I'ld rather have a clash than mere superficial talk. ‒ Well, I thought that when you gradually ceased writing to me it was because you felt that if we were to dig down deep enough we wouldn't be able to see eye to eye in very serious matters. Perhaps I was quite wrong. [B]ut anyway, if we live to see each other again let's not shirk digging. You can't think decently if you don't want to hurt yourself. I know all about it because I am a shirker.
I haven't seen Smythies for a long time, but shall see him in about 2 weeks when he'll come up from Oxford (where he has a job, not connected with the University) to read a paper to the Moral Science Club. ‒ Read this letter in a good spirit! Good luck!
Affectionately
Ludwig Wittgenstein

