Siglum: b1949_03_19_an_MalcolmLeonida.MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Leonida und Norman Malcolm, 19. 3. 1949

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 117f.; WiC, S. 440). 

Text: 
19.3.49
Ross's Hotel
Parkgate Street
Dublin
Dear Lee & Norman
Thank you ever so much for the kind invitation. I got it almost a week ago but couldn't reply because my thoughts were in such a turmoil; & even today I may not be able to produce anything better than a jumble of incoherent sentences. First let me say a) that I feel deeply grateful for your kindness & b) that, I feel strongly tempted to accept your invitation. But there are huge difficulties. ‒ My eldest sister is, to the best of my knowledge, still alive & my two younger sisters may still want me to go to Vienna before long. If this happened I'd probably go to Vienna within the next 3 weeks & stay there for 3 or 4 weeks. ‒ I went to a travel agency to enquire about going to America & found out that the journey there & back would cost me somewhere between 80 & 120 pounds. Further I'm told that you alone will have to pay for my upkeep in America, as I'm not allowed to take with me more than £ 5. In fact I gather that you'd have to send affidavids stating that you are able & willing to pay for all my expences during my stay in the U.S.A.. If these regulations did not exist I could, theoretically, spend my own money in America, but in fact I couldn't afford that. I could afford the trip only by staying with you for 2, or 3 months & sponging on you! ‒ Now the prospect of staying with you for that length of time is very pleasant as far as I'm concerned, but there is the snag that I am an elderly man & aging pretty rappidly. I mean, physically, not, as far as I can see, mentally. Now this means that you couldn't take me on any tours. I'm all right for strolling about but I can't do very much more than I did at Cambridge. ‒ For the same reason I wouldn't be any good at gardening. ‒ If it weren't for all these difficulties I'd come like a shot, for I'd love to stay with you, have discussions with one of you & make myself a general nuisance to the other. ‒ I've forgotten to mention another thing. If I booked a 3rd class passage right away I couldn't get a birth before the middle of July; if I booked 2nd class, which is much more expensive, I could travel towards the middle, or end of May. Heaven knows where you might be in July, but even if I came earlier I'd have to stay with you until September & be a dead weight during your summer vacations. ‒ This, as far as I can see now in my confused state of mind, is the position. ‒ 
I imagine that you didn't quite realize all these snags when you invited me. Please take everything that I've said in this letter seriously & at it's face-value.
Thank you again for your great kindness.
Affectionately
Ludwig

