Siglum: b1944_10_17_an_RheesRush

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Rush Rhees, 17. 10. [1944]

sourceDesc:  Original an der ÖNB (Autogr. 1286/17-4); Kopie im BA.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 367). 

Text: 
Trinity Coll.
17.10.
Dear Rhees,
Thanks for your note & the enclosure. I've often thought of you but its difficult for me to write a letter just now. I've seen Russell & Moore. Russell somehow gave me a bad impression. Moore is as nice as always. I gave him your good wishes etc. I couldn't see him for long as we were interrupted by Mrs Moore. She told me later that Moore wasn't really as well as he seemed & that he mustn't have long conversations. I have good reason for believing that this, on the whole, is boloney. Moore has had queer black-outs at times but then he's an oldish man. For his age he is obviously fit. Mrs Moore, however, doesn't like the idea of his seeing me. Perhaps she's afraid that I might criticize the book which was written about him &, generally, have a bad effect on his morale. ‒
My class is exceedingly poor. I have so far 6 people, none of whom is really good. Lewy & Thouless are coming. Yesterday I gave my first lecture ‒ & you were right: I didn't take James a[s] my text but just talked out of my own head (or through my own hat). I have hope to get a typist soon, but no hope whatever to finish my book in the near future. I needn't tell you that I am sincerely glad that I could spend such a long time in Swansea with you. I wish I could have been of greater use to you than I was. Thinking is sometimes easy, often difficult but at the same time thrilling. But when it's most important it's just disagreable, that is when it threatens to robb one of ones pet notions & to leave one all bewildered & with a feeling of worthlessness. In these cases I & others shrink from thinking or can only get ourselves to think after a long sort of struggle. I believe that you too know this situation & I wish you lots of courage! though I haven't got it myself. we are all sick people.
On this cheerful note I shall close my letter. May I see you again before very long! It is true that the blind can't lead the blind; but two blind men have 4 feet between them & can therefore stabilize each other a bit. Give my wishes & thanks to Mrs Rhees.
So long!
Ludwig Wittgenstein

