Siglum: b1948_12_31_an_MalcolmLeonida

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Leonida Malcolm, 31. 12. 1948

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 113f.). 

Text: 
Ross's Hotel
Parkgate Street
Dublin
Eire
31.12.48
Dear Lee,
Thank you & Norman ever so much for your wonderful present! As I've said before, you should be put under tutilage! And in that case I might try to get 'powers of attorney'. (That's the sort of thing I always read in my detective magazines.) Everything in the box was most useful & grand. ‒ Some weeks ago I heard from Norman who wrote that he hadn't yet heard from Prof. Moore. I think by now he'll have got a letter from him. ‒ You see, when I saw Moore 3 months ago I reminded him of two things, one of which was to write to Norman. So when I heard that he hadn't written to Norman I thought he might also have forgotten his second promise to me & I wrote him a letter with my Xmas card reminding him of both; to which I received an answer from him, saying that he'd done both things. ‒ Rhees, whom you've met, is staying with me now for about a week. He is good company. I'm reading part of my stuff with him. When he leaves on Jan. 1st (tomorrow) I'll give him the tin of dried eggs from your parcel. I don't need it ju[s]t now & he does. That reminds me: Your 'instant coffee' is lovely. I now see that Washington really was a great man ‒ I had a Christmas card & a letter from Smythies. He seems to be well & working hard; I hope not too hard. I, too, am working a fair amount & still moderately well. I wish my luck could hold for another 6 months, for by then I could get a good chunk of work done. ‒ The weather here is cold now, far too cold for my liking. ‒ Thanks again, & thanks for the lovely card. All good wishes to you, Norman & Ray from
Ludwig
I often think of you & hope to see you all again before too long!
P.S. I had ordered for Norman a little book which, I thought, might interest him. Yesterday I found out from the d.... people in the bookshop that they hadn't given the publishers the right address! So heaven knows when it'll reach him! It's nothing anyhow, but I'm very sorry.

