Siglum: b1944_11_28_an_RheesRush

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Rush Rhees, 28. 11. 1944

sourceDesc:  Original an der ÖNB (Autogr. 1286/17-5); Kopie im BA.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 371). 

Text: 
Trinity Coll.
Cambridge
Tuesday 28.11.44.
Dear Rhees,
Thanks for your letter, dated Nov. 25th. I'm sorry to hear about the depressing circumstances under which you are working. Please don't give in, or despair! I know how immensely depressing things can look; &, of course, I'm the first man to think of running away, but I hope you'll pull yourself together. I wonder what lines for a logic course I recommended. Anyhow, there's nothing more difficult than to teach logic with any success when your students are all half asleep. (I've heard Braithwaite snore in my lectures.) Please go the bloody rough way! ‒ I wish you one moderately intelligent & awake pupil to sweeten your labour! Please look after your health. You can't expect good work when your health isn't really good, & colds are nasty things. I've so far been in good health, & consequently my classes haven't gone too bad. (Or should I say "badly"?) Thouless is coming to them, & a woman, Mrs so & so who calls herself Miss Anscombe, who certainly is intelligent, though not of Kreisel's caliber.
I heard from Malcolm recently who is executive Officer of a ship (whatever that means) & was, when he wrote me, in England, but only for a few hours. ‒ Drury is in France & I get news from him regularly.
I have recently been reading a fair amount: a history of the Mormons & two books of Newman's. The chief effect of this reading is to make me feel a little more my worthlessness. Though I'm aware of it only as a slumbering man is aware of certain noises going on around him which, however, don't wake him up.
I repeat: Please go the bloody, rough way! Complain, swear, but go on. The students are stupid but they get something out of it.
Please give my good wishes to Mrs Rhees. Remember me to any of your people who remember me.
Smythies is coming up on Saturday to read a paper at the M. Sc. Cl. (subject unknown). So long! Luck!
Ludwig Wittgenstein

