Siglum: b1913_11_30_an_RussellBertrand

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Bertrand Russell, [Ende November 1913]

sourceDesc:  Original in The Bertrand Russell Archives der McMaster University; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Letters, S. 36f.; deutsch: Briefe, S. 40ff.; Cambridge Letters, S. 52ff.; WiC, S. 53f.). 

Text: 
Lieber Russell,
I intended to write this letter in German, but it struck me that I did not know whether to call you "Sie" or "Du" & so I am reduced to my beastly english jargon! ‒
I will begin by explaining why there must be a prop. from which all Logic follows:
I beg you to notice that, allthough I shall make use in what follows of my ab-Notation, the Meaning of this Notation is not needed; that is to say, even if this Notation should turn out not to be the final correct Notation what I am going to say is valid if you only admit ‒ as I believe you must do ‒ that it is a possible Notation. Now listen: I will first talk about those Logical props which are or might be contained in the first 8 Chapters of Princ. Math. That they all follow from one Pp is clear because one symbolic rule is sufficient to recognize each of them as true or false. And this is the one symbolic rule: Write the prop down in the ab-Notation, trace all Connections (of Poles) from the outside to the inside Poles: Then if the b-Pole is connected to such Groups of inside Poles only as contain oposite poles of one prop, then the whole prop is a true, logical prop. If on the other hand this is the case with the a-Pole the prop is false & logical. If finaly neither is the case the prop may be true or false but is in no case Logical. Such for instance (p).~p p limited to a suitable type of course is not a logical prop at all & its truth can neither be proved nor disproved from logical pro[p]s allon. The Same is the case ‒ by the way ‒ with your axiom of reducibility, it is not a logical Prop at all & the same applies to the axioms of infinity & the mult. ax. If these are true props they are what I shall call "accidentally" true & and not "essentially" true. Whether a prop is accidentally or essentially true can be seen by writing it down in the ab-Notation & applying the above rule. What I ‒ in stating this rule ‒ called "logical" prop is a prop which is either essentially true or essentially false. This distinction of accid. & essent. true props explains ‒ by the way ‒ the feeling one allways had about the infin. ax. & the axiom of reducibility, the feeling that if they where true they would be so only by a lucky accident.
Of course the rule I have given applies first of all only for what you called elementary props. But it is easy to see that it must also apply to all others: For consider your two Pps in the Theory of app. vars *9.1 & *9.11. Put there instead of  and it becomes obvious that the special cases of these two Pps like those of all the previous ones become tautologous if you apply the ab-Notation. The ab-Notation for Identity is not yet clear enough to show this clearly but it is obvious that such a Notation can be made up. I can sum up by saying that a logical prop is one the speciale cases of which are either tautologous ‒ & then the prop is true ‒ or "selfcontradictory" (as I shall call it) & then it is false. And the ab Notation simply showes directly which of those two it is (if any). That means there is one Method of proving or disprooving all logical props and this is: writing them down in the ab-Notation & looking at the connections & apply the above rule. But if one symbolic rule will do, there must also be one P.p. that will do.
There is much that follows from all this & much that I could only explain vaguely but if you realy think it over you will find that I am right. ‒ I am glad that your classes are a success. As to Wiener I can only say that, if he is good at Math, Math isn't much good. However ‒
‒ Write again soon! And think allways well of your 
LW
P.S. Please remember me to Hardy. Every letter of yours gives me infinite pleasure!

