Siglum: b1914_06_28_von_EcclesWilliam

Title: Von William Eccles an Ludwig Wittgenstein, 28. 6. 1914

sourceDesc:  Original im BA.    Austria Innsbruck Forschungsinstitut Brenner-Archiv 11/8.1    

Text: 
TEL. CHORLTON 452.
15 HIGH LANE,
CHORLTON-CUM-HARDY,
MANCHESTER.
Sunday
 28-6-14
Dear W,
I know it is a very long "fortnight or so" since I wrote last but it was because I have been very busy with work and important things about the house
At last I have got up to date with reports, letters, bills &c &c The house is about equipped now electrically except for a motor to drive a washing machine and a vacuum cleaning arrangement. The furnishing is complete (fractionally) thanks to you for many items.
The Decorating has been designed or rather planned by Ada except for the Drawing room which is a copy of your Cambridge room (Blue carpet, black paint, yellow walls) except that the ceiling and about 2. ft down the walls all round is white and the lighting which is indirect i.e. reflected from the ceiling.
All the other rooms are on the same simple scale but with different (plain) colours of walls and woodwork (the ceilings in every case are the same as the drawing room.
The effect is greatly admired by everyone and is certainly good to live with but we are looking forward to your criticism when you come here.
The electric fittings, especially the cooking which is really fine ‒ are so clean & handy.
The radiators too are excellent and we have no need of fires at all so that when we are without a maid ‒ as is the case at present ‒ there is very little inconvenience.
In all we have apparatus of an aggregate capacity of about 15. Kilowatts!
Now I want your advice about a suite of bedroom furniture which I would like to have made sometime when enough cash accumulates to pay for it. The enclosed sketches are just about what I want.
I have considered only
1/ Utility.
We have not a separate room for clothes hence the large size of everything, but as the room is large (being 18.ft x 13.ft which is just about the same size as the room you slept in when staying in Coleraine)
2/ Construction (giving preference to the easiest method of construction)
3/ Absolute simplicity
Unfortunately my sketches are only working drawings and require some imagination to see the article
The Manufacturers sketches are better in this respect but I would rather have my own designs
Now please let us have yours and, I must say, soon as I have left this till the Medicine Chest is required at no very distant date.
About the middle of August I believe and we are expecting you here about the first of September to see the little stranger.
Going by what you used to say I am taking it that you will do your best to be here as soon after the first of September as is convenient.
I have very little ‒ in fact no ‒ news which you are interested in except about myself & Ada which is only tiresome.
Aunt and Uncle are both very well and tremendously interested in this house and the pair of us. Bye the way Aunt and Ada get along excellently and Aunt is really decent now.
Work continues to be much the same but I believe I am getting a better status gradually and a few of my suggestions have been adopted lately by the Company
I have only to ask you how you are getting on, which with you, means how is work getting on?
I do wish you could take a real holiday and forget pen & paper for a few days like as I made you in Coleraine.
How are your own people?
I hope your mother keeps all right.
Now don't come here in August but do come in September
W. Eccles

