Siglum: b1913_10_29_an_RussellBertrand

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Bertrand Russell, 29. 10. u. 30. 10. 1913

sourceDesc:  Original in The Bertrand Russell Archives der McMaster University; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Letters, S. 31f.; deutsch: Briefe, S. 36f.; Cambridge Letters, S. 45f.; WiC, S. 49). 

Text: 
c/o H. Draegni, Skiolden
Sogn, Norway.
29.10.13.
Dear Russell,
I hope you have got my letter which I wrote on the 16th. I left it in the Dining room of the boat & afterwards telefoned that it should be posted but I don't know with what effect. This is an ideal place to work in. ‒ Soon after I arrived here I got a violent influenza which prevented me from doing any work untill quite recently. Identity is the very Devil & immensely important; very much more so than I thought. It hangs ‒ like everything else ‒ directly together with the most fundamental questions, especially with the questions concerning the occurence of the same argument in different places of a function. I have all sorts of ideas for a solution of the problem but could not yet arrive at anything definite. However I don't loose courage & go on thinking. I have got two nice rooms here in the Postmasters house & am looked after very well indeed. By the way ‒ would you be so good & send me two copies of Moore's paper: "The Nature & Reality of Objects of Perception" which he read to the Aristotelian Soc. in 1906. I am affraid I can't yet tel you the reason why I whant two copies but you shall know it some day. If you kindly send the bill with them I will send the money immediately after receiving the Pamflets. ‒ As I hardly meet a soul in this place, the progress of my Norwegian is exceedingly slow; so much so that I have not yet learned a single swear word! Please remember me to Dr & Mrs Whitehead & Erik if you see them. Write to me soon!
Yours as long as E!
L. W.
P. S. How are your conversation-classes going on? Did you get the copy of my manuscript? I enclose a roseleaf as sample of the flora in this place.
30.10.
I wrote this letter yesterday. Since then quite new ideas have come into my head: new problems have arrisen in the theory of molecular props & the theory of inferrence has received a new & very important aspect. One of the consequences of my new ideas will ‒ I think ‒ be that the whole of Logic follows from one P.p. only!! I cannot say more about it at present.
L. W.

