Siglum: b1929_03_21_an_RamseyFrankPlumpton

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Frank Plumpton Ramsey, [Frühjahr 1929]

sourceDesc:  Original bei Hermann Hänsel; Kopie im BA (schlecht). Publiziert (deutsch: Briefe, S. 167f.; Cambridge Letters, S. 227f.; WiC, S. 164). 

Text: 
Dear Ramsey,
I saw Braithwaite yesterday to ask him what exactly Dr Broad had told him & this morning I whent to see Mr Priestley. He said that he couldn't remember having talked to you about my dissertation & if he had, that he could never have said with any certainty the book would count as he is only the secretary of the Board of research studies & it is not for him to decide the matter. He thinks however that there will be no difficulty about it in the meeting of the Board of research studies if the report from the moral science board should be favorable. In any case he will be so kind to talk to the authorities Soreley & Broad about it & let me know if there is anything for me to do. So I believe the matter is in good hands now & I don't worry about it any longer.
A thing which is of much greater importance to me & was so on Saturday evening, is, that I still cann't understand the way you behaved in this matter, that's to say I cann't understand how, beeing my supervisor & even ‒ as I thought ‒ to some extent my friend having been very good to me you couldn't care two pins whether I got my degree or not. So much so, that you didn't even think of telling Braithwaite that you had told me my book would count as a dissertation. (I afterwards remembered one day talking to you about it in hall & you saying "it would be absurd to write another thesis now strai[gh]taway".) ‒ Now you'll whant to know why I write to you all this. It is not to reproach you nor to make fuss about nothing but to explain why I was upset on saturday & couldn't have supper with you. It is allways very hard for a fellow in my situation to see that he cann't rely on the people he would like to rely on. No doubt this is due to a great extent to the difference of nationalities: What a statement seems to imply to me it doesn't to you. If you should ever live amongst foreign people for any length of time & be dependent on them you will understand my difficulty.
Yours
Ludwig
P.S. I find on looking at my College bills that I have informed you wrongly about the fees; they are alltogether only 59 £ not 70 or 80 as I thought.

