Siglum: b1929_06_15_an_MooreGeorgeEdward

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an George Edward Moore, [15. 6. 1929]

sourceDesc:  Original bei Timothy Moore; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Letters, S. 152f.; deutsch: Briefe, S. 174f.; Cambridge Letters, S. 236f.; WiC, S. 171). 

Text: 
Saturday
Dear Moore,
Mr Butler wrote to me on Thursday to see him about the research-grant & to explain what exactly it was I wanted, & what were my plans for the future. ‒ I did my best to explain it but don't feel sure that I have succeeded in making myself clear. I therefore, in this letter, want to state again as clearly as I can my position, to guard against all possibilities of misinterpretation.
I am in the middle of a bit of research work which I don't want to break off as it seems to me hopefull. I possess all in all about 100 £ which will carry me through the vacations & perhaps another month or two; but I mustn't use up all I've got, to leave some reserve for the time of looking round for a job. ‒ I therefore ask the College to grant me say 50 £ which would enable me to go on with my philosophical work till, at least, Xmass. If it should turn out, that in this time I have been able to produce good work ‒ as judged by anybody, the College would consider an expert in the matter ‒ and if, further, I should feel capable of continuing my work with success, then I propose to ask the College again for some sort of subvention.
Now Mr Butler asked me, how long, I thought, this might go on. ‒ I can't answer this question, because I don't know, how long I will be able to produce good work. (For all I know ‒ though I don't think it's likely ‒ I may cease tomorrow). But, I think, this question rests on a misunderstanding of what I realy want. Let me explain this: Supposing I was run over by a bus today & then were to see my tutor & say: "I'm now a cripple for lifetime, couldn't the College give me some money to suport me". Then it would be right to ask the question: "And how long do you propose this to go on, & when will you be selfsuporting?" But this is not my case. I propose to do work, & I have a vague idea, that the College in some cases encourages such work by means of research grants, fellowships, etc. That's to say, I turn out some sort of goods & if the College has any use for these goods, I would like the College to enable me to produce them, as long as it has use for them, & as long as I can produce them. ‒ If, on the other hand, the College has no use for them, that puts an end to the question.
Yours ever
Ludwig Wittgenstein

