Siglum: b1921_11_05_von_RussellBertrand

Title: Von Bertrand Russell an Ludwig Wittgenstein, 5. 11. 1921

sourceDesc:  Original im BA. Publiziert (Cambridge Letters, S. 170f.; WiC, S. 127).    Austria Innsbruck Forschungsinstitut Brenner-Archiv 11/26.20    

Text: 
[Permanent Address] 31 Sydney Street London S. W. 3
5.11.21
My dear Wittgenstein
I was very glad to hear from you. First, I have to tell you about your MS. As you know, I left it to Miss Wrinch to deal with while I was in China. After various failures, she got it accepted by Ostwald for his Annalen der Naturphilosophie; the proofs have just come, & I suppose it will be published in about 2 months. I had thought she was only going to try English publishers, so I left her my introduction, which Ostwald is also printing. I am sorry, as I am afraid you won't like that, but as you will see from his letter, it can't be helped. It is also going to appear in English in a new philosophical library published by Kegan Paul, but probably that won't be for nearly a year. In English it will appear as a separate book. This is due to Ogden (of the Cambridge Mag.) who has taken a lot of trouble about it.
As for me, I am now married to Miss Black, & expecting a child in a few days. We have bought this house, & got your furniture from Cambridge, which we like very much. The child will probably be born in your bed. There were a great many books of yours, as well as various boxes & parcels from engineering firms which you had never opened. If ever you come to see us, I will give you back any of your books that you may want. Your things are worth much more than I paid for them, & I will pay you more whenever you like. I didn't know when I bought them how much I was getting. In particular, if you could ever manage to come to England, you must let me pay the expenses of your journey as further payment for your furniture. I do wish you would come ‒ the prospective child will make it a little more difficult for me to travel. I am quite well again now. I forget whether I told you that in Peking I was in the German hospital, & looked after by German Doctors. They were wonderfully skilled & kind & careful, and one of them, Dr. Esser, became a great friend of us both. I also made friends with an Austrian named Brandauer, who knew you by name. He had been a prisoner in Siberia.
I am very sorry you find the people of Trattenbach so trying. But I refuse to believe they are worse than the rest of the human race; my logical instinct revolts against the notion.
Do consider seriously coming to see us whenever you have long enough holidays. Best love, as always.
Yours ever
Bertrand Russell.

