Siglum: b1938_03_18_an_KeynesJohnMaynard

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an John Maynard Keynes, 18. 3. 1938

sourceDesc:  Kopie im BA. Publiziert (deutsch: Briefe, S. 206ff.; Cambridge Letters, S. 293ff.; WiC, S. 273f.). 

Text: 
81 East Rd.
Cambridge
18.3.38
My dear Keynes,
I am so sorry to have to trouble you with my own affairs at a time when you yourself are not too well. I want however to describe to you my present situation and ask you whether you can by any chance, in some way not too difficult for you, give me some advice or help. You know that by the annexation of Austria by Germany I have become a German citizen and, by the German laws, a German Jew (as three of my grandparents were baptised only as adults). The same, of course, applies to my brother and sisters (not to their children, they count as Aryans). As my people in Vienna are almost all retiring and very respected people who have always felt and behaved patriotically it is, on the whole, unlikely that they are at present in any danger. I have not yet heard from them since the invasion and there hasn't yet been time as they would wait in any case with giving me news until things had settled down a bit. I wrote to them a week ago saying that if they needed me I would come home any time. But I believe that they aren't going to call me and also that I couldn't at present do anything for them, except possibly cheering them up a little. ‒ If however I went to Vienna now the consequences would be
a) that my passport, being an Austrian one, would be taken away from me and b) that, in all likelihood, no passport would be given to me; as passports, except in very special cases, are not, I gather, issued to German Jews. I could therefore c) not leave Austria again and d) never again get a job.
My people, who were rich before the war, are still wealthyish and will probably, even when a lot will be taken away from them, still have enough money to keep me (and they would gladly do so) but I needn't say this would be the last thing that I'ld wish to happen.
I also must say that the idea of becoming (or being) a German citizen, even apart from all the nasty consequences, is appalling to me. (This may be foolish, but it just is so.)
For all these reasons I have now decided to try 1) to get a University job at Cambridge, 2) to acquire British citizenship.
The thought of acquiring British citizenship had occurred to me before; but I have always rejected it on the ground: that I do not wish to become a sham-Englishman (I think you will understand what I mean). The situation has however entirely changed for me now. For now I have to choose between two new nationalities, one of which deprives me of everything, while the other, at least, would allow me to work in a country in which I have spent on and off the greater part of my adult life, have made my greatest friends and have done my best work.
Now if I wish to try to become naturalised here I'm afraid I have to make haste; one of the reasons being that (as Sraffa pointed out to me) it would be easier as long as I hold an Austrian passport. And this I might have to give up before so very long.
As to getting a job at Cambridge you may remember that I was an assistant faculty lecturer for 5 years, and that the regulations don't allow one to hold this job for more than 5 years. When my 5 years had expired the faculty allowed me to go on lecturing as before and they went on paying me as before. Now it is for this that I shall apply, for there is no other job vacant. I had, in fact, thought of doing so anyway; though not now, but perhaps next autumn. But it would be important now for me to get a job as quickly as possible; for a) it would help me in becoming naturalised and b) if I failed in this and had to become a German I would have more chance to be allowed out of Austria again on visiting my people if I had a job in England.
I have talked all this over with Sraffa yesterday. He is leaving today or tomorrow for Italy and I came here in a hurry from Dublin to see him and talk with him. He thought the right thing for me is to see a solicitor about becoming naturalized, one who is an expert in this kind of thing. Sraffa thought that you might possibly be able to tell me the right person or give me some sort of advice about the matter, or also about applying for a University job.
I want to add that I'm in no sort of financial difficulties. I shall have about 300 or 400 £ and can therefore easily hold out for another year or so
Well, this is all. Forgive me for making you read this long letter; if indeed you ever get to this line.
I hope I may see you again before so very long. Whatever you may think about me or my problems I am
Yours ever
Ludwig
P.S. If my people wrote to me now that they wanted me at home I would, of course have to go. But, as I said, this is most unlikely.

