Siglum: b1935_07_06_an_KeynesJohnMaynard

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an John Maynard Keynes, 6. 7. 1935

sourceDesc:  Original an der King's College Library in Cambridge; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Letters, S. 134f.; deutsch: Briefe, S. 190ff.; Cambridge Letters, S. 264f.; WiC, S. 245f.). 

Text: 
Saturday 6.7.35.
My dear Keynes,
Thanks for your letter. To thank you for your answer to point a) wouldn't be the right thing, for no word of thanks would be really adequate. ‒ As to b) I can't see Vinogradoff because he has left for Moskow. He told me he was going to leave on the Saturday after my conversation with him. In this conversation he wasn't at all very helpful i.e. not as helpful even as he might have been. I'm sure however he didn't show this when you asked him about me in the presence of Maisky. Vinogradoff was exceedingly careful in our conversation & I'm sure he has to be. He of course knew as well as anyone that recomendations might help me but it was quite clear that he wasn't going to help me to get any, at least none that might carry real weight. ‒ Now what I wanted with Maisky was this: I wanted to see him & have a conversation with him. I know that there is very little chance that I or my case could make a good impression on him. But I think there is an off chance of this happening. There is further a small chance of his knowing some official at Leningrad or Moskow to whom he might introduce me. I want to speak to officials at two institutions; one is the "Institute of the north" in Leningrad, the other the "Institute of national Minorities" in Moskow. These Institutes, as I am told, deal with people who want to go to the 'colonies' the newly colonized parts at the periphery of the U.S.S.R. I want to get information & possibly help from people in these Institutes. I thought that Maisky might recommend me to someone there. I imagine that such a recommendation or introduction could be of two kinds. It may either be purely official; in which case it could only say "would so & so be so kind to see me & listen to my questions". For it is clear to me that Maisky could no do anything else qua Embassador. Or it might be an inofficial recommendation to someone he knows well & this he would only give me if I made a good impression on him, which ‒ I know ‒ is very unlikely. If what I think is sound ‒ & God knows whether it is ‒ then it might be useful for me to get an introduction from you to Maisky. In this introduction I don't want you to ask him to give me introductions, but only to allow me to have a conversation with him in order to get some information or advice. If he grants me an interview I will myself ask him whether he could give me an introduction to someone in Russia. You would have to say in your introduction that I am your personal friend & that you are sure that I am in no way politically dangerous (that is, if this is your opinion). ‒ If you feel, either that such an introduction & consequent conversation could do me no good or if you feel uncomfortable about giving me such an introduction for any other reasons, whatever they may be, I will feel perfectly satisfied with your not giving me an introduction.
I am sure that you partly understand my reasons for wanting to go to Russia & I admit that they are partly bad & even childish reasons but it is true also that behind all that there are deep & even good reasons.
Yours ever
Ludwig

