Siglum: b1938_01_00_an_SraffaPiero

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Piero Sraffa, Jänner 1938

sourceDesc:  Abschrift McGuinness, Kopie in BA. 

Text: 
Dear Sraffa,
The following are some remarks I’ve put down on the topic of our last conversation. I hope they won’t be too disconnected & I hope that you’ll read them to the end.
You said: “The Austrians can do most of the things the Germans did”. I say: How do you know? What circumstances are you taking into account if you say they can? “He can remove the wedding ring from his finger”. True, it’s not too heavy & it doesn’t stick to his finger. But: he may be ashamed of doing it; his wife may not allow it, etc.
You say: “Learn from what has happened in Italy”. But what should I learn from them? I don’t know exactly how things happened in Italy. So the only lesson I could draw from it is, that things one doesn’t expect sometimes happen.
I ask: how will this man whose face I cann’t imagine in a rage look like when he gets into a rage? And can he get into a rage? What shall I say when I see him in a rage? Not only “ah, so he could get into a rage after all”, but: “so this is the way he can be in a rage; so this is how it connects up with his former appearance.” 
It is a fact that I can easily immagine some features turning angry (remember what I said about Germans in Bohemia) & not others. This of course doesn’t mean that I deny that the latter can look angry too; but I am puzzled as to the kind of anger they are capable of. And perhaps I will make a conjecture about the sort of anger I imagine it to be.
You say to me: “If a man is in a rage the muscles a, b, c of his face contract. This man (Austria) has the muscles a, b, c, so why shouldn’t they contract. In fact if you Wittgenstein wish to know what he will look like in a rage just imagine him with these muscles contracted. What will Austria look like when it turns Nazi? There will be no socialist party, there won’t be jewish judges, etc, etc, etc. That’s what it’ll look like.” I reply: This gives me no picture of a face; appart form the fact that I don’t know enough about the working of things to know whether all these changes which you point out will happen together. For I understand what it means to say that the muscles a, b, c, will contract, but what will become of the many muscles etc. between them. Cann’t the contraction of the one in this particular face prevent the contraction of the others? Do you know how in this particular case things interact?
You may say: Surely the only way to tell the future physiognomy is to know more & more exactly the contractions etc. of all (not only the main) muscles.
I say: I don’t think this is the only way; there is another one, although the two ways meet. I may ask a physiologist what the face will be like, but also a painter. The two will give different answers (the painter by drawing the angry face) although if they both are correct they will agree. Of course I know that painters have to study anatomy. I want to know the painters answer, and I also want to know what the physiologist can tell me to check the painters answer.
I am interested to know what phrases the Austrians will use when they’ll have turned Nazi. Supposing their patriotism is only talk then I’m just interested in their future talk. 
[zwei Zeilen gelöscht]
I wish to say one more thing: I think that your fault in a discussion is this: you are not helpful! I am like a man inviting you to tea to my room; but my room is hardly furnished, one has to sit on boxes & the teacups stand on the floor & the cups have no handles, etc etc. I hustle about fetching anything I can think of to make it possible that we should have tea together. You stand about with a sulky face; say that you cann’t sit down on a box, & cann’t hold a cup without a handle, & generally make things difficult. – At least that’s how it seems to me.
Yours 
Ludwig Wittgenstein

