Siglum: b1938_03_12_an_SraffaPiero

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Piero Sraffa, 12. 3. 1938

sourceDesc:  Abschrift McGuinness, Kopie in BA.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 267f.). 

Text: 
36 Chelmsford Rd. 
Ranelagh 
Dublin 
12.3.38.
Dear Sraffa,
Thanks for your letter. – I’m afraid this one of mine is going to be long & rather confused corresponding to the confused state of my brain. You know, of course, more than I about the recent events in Austria. I take it, it is conceivable that they are the immediate preparation for a war & if a war should brake out now, God knows what would happen & I’m not talking about this possibility. Rather I assume that a war is not going to brake out within the next 6 months. Assuming this I want to know what I shall do. My plan originally was to go to Austria in May or June for one of my usual visits, to stay there a month or so & to return to Cambridge or Dublin. As things are now I wonder a) whether I shall be let out of Austria if I go there, b) whether I shall be let in to England from Austria. Now both to be able to leave Austria & to enter England are of vital importance to me. To have to live in Austria would be intollerable to me & I have friends in England I don’t want to leave. Now I have still about 300-400 £ in England (I have no money in Austria) & they would allow me to live a year at least without taking a job & this on the whole is good for my work (i.e. my book). But I think now it may be important for me to try & get a job as a lecturer of sorts at Cambridge (I don’t mean get a lectureship, as there’s none vacant, but let them pay me for a course of lectures as they used to.) My object is this:
1) if I can say that I’ve got a job in England they can’t so easily detain me in Austria 
2) if I have a job at Cambridge they, I mean the English immigration people, will let me come back to England. 
3) If I’m not jobless, I shall more easily find a job elsewhere & perhaps acquire some other citizenship. For I am more anxious than ever of chucking my austrian citizenship.
I needn’t say that, being of jewish de[s]cent I couldn’t get a job in Austria. (But even if I had a chance I’ld rather do anything than take it)
I am for the reasons mentioned inclined to go back to Cambridge next term (or during the vac) give some discussions as I always do & try [to] be taken on as some sort of lecturer. I’ld rather get a job over here in Ireland but I think there is no chance at present (but may be in future). By the way, when I said I may try to acquire an other citizenship I thought of the Irish one. I don’t know whether I can explain my reason, but roughly it is this that here I couldn’t be regarded as anything than a refugee pure & simple whereas in England with a Brittish passport I would be a kind of sham-englishman. I don’t know if you see my point, & possibly I’m wrong anyway. – Now I should like to have your oppinion about my reasoning & whether it is advisable & right* to try for a job at Cambridge. I’m sorry to trouble you with this; but the fact was, I even thought of comming to England just to see you & hear your oppinion. If you can, please write to me. I hope this letter still reaches you in Cambridge & I hope to see you anyhow at or after Easter. The sooner the better.
Yours 
Ludwig Wittgenstein
* or whether there is something fishy about it 

