Siglum: b1932_04_08_an_WatsonWilliamHeriot

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an William Heriot Watson, 8. 4. 1932

sourceDesc:  Abschrift McGuinness.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 199). 

Text: 
8.IV.32
My dear Watson,
Thanks so much for your letter dated 6th March. By now I suppose you will have got a letter I wrote to you from Cambridge. I am in Vienna now for the vac. but working pretty hard. I did take some stuff to a man who is writing a book on philosophy (in my sense of the word). I do this partly as I'm growing more and more doubtful as to the publication of my own work, that is, of what I've been writing in the last 3 or 4 years. Somehow I may not have the power of condensing it and getting it into a printable shape and in this case I don't mind if somebody else publishes it. However, we'll see what happens.
I don't know that there is any chance of my coming over to America. I can't afford a pleasure trip of course but could only come over to do some job. Which practically means that I could only come over if I was asked to lecture a some university. But I don't know why they should ask me. (All the more as Philosophy in most places there - if I'm not mistaken - takes a radically different turn from that which I care to give it).
Thanks awfully for the cuttings. There is a book I absolutely want you to get. It's called "Points of View" and is a collection of broadcastings from the B.B.C. containing the philosophy of Lowes Dickinson, J. B. S. Haldane, Dean Inge, Oliver Lodge and one or two others ... Please buy it if you can get it in Montreal. It's worth it. You can't get more concentrated stupidity, muddleheadedness and humbug. At this point I broke off and went to bed with a flu. I'm feeling better now but still rather stupid and dull. So I think I'd rather leave this letter as it is and write more another time. What kind of information do you want about Frege? His views? That would be a tall order. And about his life I know very little indeed. He was when I first met him in 1911 about 60 and Professor at Jena and died about 1922 - Best wishes.
Ever yours
Ludwig Wittgenstein
Thanks awfully for the cuttings!!!

