Siglum: b1933_11_21_an_PattissonGilbert

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Gilbert Pattisson, 21. 11. 1933

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. 

Text: 
Tuesday
21./11./33.
Dear Gilbert,
you'll be surprised to get another letter from me so soon. It's about Drury. I had a letter from Drury this morning in which he writes that his mother has now decided to give him an allowance so that he can live in Dublin (where the expence of a medical training seems to be comparativly small) if his friends will provide the money for the training. Now Drury had made enquiries a month or so ago & found out that the cost of the training at Dublin all together would come to £ 170. This amount we could raise, Keynes paying £ 150 & Drurys sister who is very poor £ 20. So all would be well; but: I dont believe that the cost of the training is really only £ 170. I have had the experience that if you ask for the cost of training they first tell you a certain sum which includes, say, immatriculation & the main fees; if however you enquire more accurately you find that there are other payments you must make which amount to a lot. In London e.g. the real sum was more than £ 100 more than the amount we gathered from our first information. So I wrote back to Drury saying that he should make most accurate enquiries again about the total cost. ‒ Now why I wrote to you is this: Would you be willing to lend Drury, say, £ 100 in case our information shows ‒ which I'm sure it will ‒ that they are required? ‒ 
Now listen: Although I ask this because you vaguely mentioned the possibility of lending him money I don't think that by saying what you did say to me in the Red Lion you incured the very faintest obligation to lend him a penny. I know that, what you said, you said without having thought about it beforehand at all & that two minutes thinking may show you that you couldn't possibly spend so much or spend any money on Drury. Therefore if you answer me: "I'm afraid I cann't lend him so much (or any thing)" I shan't think "how nasty of Gilbert" but I'll perfectly understand it. If on the other hand it should actually be possible for you to help Drury & if you should really be willing to do so, without feeling it a burden or something you might repent having done afterwards, then it would be wrong of me not to have asked you. Also, if you cann't help Drury yourself but know someone who might that's just as good. I needn't tell you that Drury knows nothing of either your inconsiderate offer or this letter.
Please don't feel cramped about [...] you don't feel [...] paying please [...] mustn't force oneself [...] to do such a thing. Perhaps you'll think that I am a damn fool or worse to tell you that, after begging money from you & thereby practically forcing you to give some. But you might know me well enough to know that I roughly mean what I say. The truth is: I come to you because I think that you can, without the faintest ill feeling on any side, say NO! to me. I hope to God that you realise this!
Yours most bloodily
Ludwig

