Siglum: b1935_06_30_an_KeynesJohnMaynard

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an John Maynard Keynes, 30. 6. [1935]

sourceDesc:  Original an der King's College Library in Cambridge; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Letters, S. 132; deutsch: Briefe, S. 189f.; Cambridge Letters, S. 262f.; WiC, S. 244). 

Text: 
Sunday 30.6.
My dear Keynes,
I'm sorry I must trouble you with my affairs again. There are two things I want to ask you:
a) I thought the other day when we talked in your room you were not disinclined to give me some sort of introduction to Maiski the Embassador. I then said I thought he would not be the man who would give me the advice I wanted. But I've been told since that if he were inclined to give me a letter of introduction to some officials in Russia it would help me a lot. Therefore my first question is, would you be willing to give me an introduction to Maiski so as to make it possible for me to have a conversation with him, as the result of which he might give me an introduction?
b) I have now more or less decided to go to Russia as a Tourist in September & see whether it is possible for me to get a suitable job there. If I find (which, I'm afraid is quite likely) that I can't find such a job, or get permission to work in Russia, then I should want to return to England & if possible study Medicine. Now when you told me that you would finance me during my medical training you did not know, I think, that I wanted to go to Russia & that I would try to get permission to practice medicine in Russia. I know that you are not in favour of my going there (& I think I understand you). Therefore I must ask you whether, under these circumstances, you would still be prepared to help me. I don't like to ask you this question, not because I risk a 'No', but because I hate asking any questions about this matter. If you reply please just write on a P.C.:
a) No or a) Yes etc
b) No etc
as the case may be.
I shall not think it in the least unkind of you if you answer both a and b negatively.
I left your room the other day with a sad feeling. It is only too natural that you shouldn't entirely understand what makes me do what I am doing, nor how hard it is for me.
Yours ever
Ludwig

