Siglum: b1945_09_04_an_GollanczVictor

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Victor Gollancz, 4. 9. 1945

sourceDesc:  Abschrift (Rothhaupt, 1995). Publiziert (Rothhaupt, 1995). 

Text: 
as from Trinity College
Cambridge.
September 4th, 1945.
Dear Mr. Gollancz,
I have read your article "In Germany Now" in the "News Chronicle" of August 27th and was glad to see that someone, publicly and in a conspicuous place, called a devilry a devilry. A friend, when I praised your article to him, gave me your pamphlet on Buchenwald.
I am deeply in sympathy with your severe criticism (and it cannot be too severe) of the cruelty, meanness and vulgarity of the daily press and of the B.B.C.. (Our cinema news reels are, if possible, more poisonous still.) It is because I strongly sympathise with your attitude to these evils that I think I ought to make what seems to me a serious criticism of your polemic against them. I shall try in this letter to put the main line of my criticism in a sketchy way; but I should like to have the opportunity some day of making what I mean clearer by word of mouth. I shall, in what follows, be blunt in order to be clear.
There are two ways of diluting and weakening an accusation or criticism. One is to couch it in half-hearted and ambiguous terms. This is not what you have done. But there is another way, which is to embellish a point which you have expressed forcefully by half a dozen subsidiary points which, even if they are not weak and dubious, draw away the reader's attention from the main issue, and make the polemic ineffectual. I know it is often difficult to refrain from raising these side-issues. One does not wish to suppress them, sometimes out of vanity, sometimes because one doesn't want to make the article too purely aggressive and offensive. Yet, considering the terrible impotence of even the most forcefully written article, if it is to be heard above the shouting of the daily press and the radio, these sacrifices must be made.
If you want to point out a foul scandal and to tell people, "Remove it, it stinks!", then, for Heaven's sake, don't add remarks about the lovely smell of roses. Such remarks, even if they are true, immediately put your writing on a wrong plane, on the plane of talk and inaction.
If you really want people to remove the dirt, don't talk to them about the philosophical issues of the value of life and happiness. This, if it does anything, will start academic chat.
In writing about the wrong attitude of people towards the Buchenwald horrors, e.g., did you wish to convince only those who agree with you about the Old and New Testament? Even if they do, your lengthy quotations serve to sidetrack their attention from the one main point. If they don't ‒ and an enormous number who might be seriously shaken by your argument do not ‒ they will feel that all this rigmarole makes the whole article smell slightly fishy. All the more as they will not gladly give up their former views.
I will stop now. ‒ If you ask me why, instead of criticising you, I don't write articles myself, I should answer that I lack the knowledge, the facility of expression and the time necessary for any decent and effective journalism. In fact, writing this letter of criticism to a man of your views and of your ability is the nearest approach to what is denied me, i.e., to writing a good article myself.
If this letter sounds impolite, this is not because it was my intention to be offensive, but because I have such difficulties in writing at all clearly that the additional task of expressing myself politely would have made it impossible for me to write at all.
Yours truly,
L. Wittgenstein

