Siglum: b1949_06_14_an_MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Norman Malcolm, 14. 6. 1949

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 121; WiC, S. 446). 

Text: 
14.6.49.
Ross's Hotel
Parkgate Street
Dublin
Dear Norman,
Thanks for your very kind letter. I never meant to pay for your kindness in discussions. Anyhow, the best I could give you would be lousy payment. All I meant was: I don't want to bore my kind hosts to death. However, let's not talk about it any more, especially as I've got good news: I've improved greatly during the last few days. So, obviously, the iron & liverextract do work. ‒ I'm very glad you've kept quiet about my visit & I hope Black will do the same. His proposal to drive us is most kind, there is, however, one thing I've got to say. I haven't seen Black for over 16 years, but when I knew him in Cambridge, though he seemed quite pleasant, I never thought highly of him as a serious thinker, & we never were particular friends. I'm saying this because I don't want him to believe that I'll be a sociable person. If you don't think that this misunderstanding might arrise I'll be glad to accept his offer. I shan't cancel my ticket from New York to Ithaca; I'm told I can have it refunded completely if I don't use it, & one never knows. A ticket in the hand is better than two motor cars in the bush. ‒ I didn't know how long the journey from New York to Ithaca was, & it would be madness for you &/or Lee to travel twice 8, or 9 hours to fetch me. So, if the car should be out of order, or off for any other reason, I'll jolly well travel to Ithaca alone. Maybe, like in the films, I'll find a beautiful girl whom I meet on the boat & who will help me. But, seriously, I'll be completely all right alone. When I wrote you the other day I was a bit funky because I wondered if my health would get better, but now I know that it is. ‒ Just one more remark. Anything that I could be said ever to have done for you was either my duty (like lecturing), or was simply done because I enjoyed your company. Draw the conclusions yourself! ‒ Yesterday I listened at the radio to part of a discussion between Prof. Ayer & a Jesuit about Logical Positivism. I stood 40 minutes of it.
Give my love to Lee & to Ray.
Thanks for everything!
Affectionately
Ludwig

