Siglum: b1948_11_06_an_MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Norman Malcolm, 6. 11. 1948

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 112f.; WiC, S. 434). 

Text: 
Ross's Hotel
Parkgate Street
Dublin
6.11.48.
Dear Norman,
Thank you for your letter of Oct. 8th. I arrived here about 3 weeks ago after staying in Cambridge a fortnight & dictating some M.S.S.. When I came here I found to my surprise that I could work again; & as I'm anxious to make hay during the very short period when the sun shines in my brain I've decided not to go to Rosro this winter but to stay here where I've got a warm & quiet room.
I'm seeing a good deal of two friends of mine, Drury & Richards, neither of whom you've met. I know that soon enough I'll have run dry again, but just now my mind feels alive. ‒ In Cambridge I saw a good deal of Miss Anscombe & I had tea a couple of times with Rollins who didn't seem to me to have deteriorated. Which is something. I also saw Moore once. I liked being with him. I told him that you had written you hadn't heard from him, & he said he'd write to you soon. He was well when I saw him but he told me that he had not been well during the first part of the summer.
I should like you to have a typescript of my stuff but I don't see how I can let you have one at present. There exist only 3 copies. One I have (& I need it), Miss Anscombe has one, Moore has half, or ¾ of one & the remaining half or ¼ is somewhere among my things in Cambridge. There is noone here who could make another copy from mine, & it would cost a lot of money. Of course Miss Anscombe could send you her copy, but, to be quite honest, I'd rather it remained safely in England as long as there are only 3 copies existing. I hope you don't think me beastly. It's nice of you to want a copy of my stuff at all! I'll let you have one as soon as I can get anotherone made.
It's very kind of Lee to think of sending me some instant coffee. I'll be grateful for it, but she mustn't send anything else! I'm in good health & in much better spirits than I ought to be, being what I am.
Let me hope that I may see you again before very long!
Affectionately
Ludwig
P.S. I saw v. Wright in Cambridge, too, & had a few talks with him. I liked being with him. Give my best wishes to Lee & to Ray!

