Siglum: b1949_08_23_an_SraffaPiero

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Piero Sraffa, 23. 8. 1949

sourceDesc:  Abschrift McGuinness, Kopie in BA.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 450). 

Text: 
1107 Hanshaw Rd. 
Ithaca N.Y. 
U.S.A.
 23.8.49. 
Dear Sraffa,
I had your letter in London a few days before leaving. I was busy & my health bad, so I couldn’t reply. Not that the letter really calls for a reply, but there’s one thing I’d like to say. I have very slowly in my life come to the conviction that some people cannot make themselves understood to each other, or at least only in a very narrowly circumscribed field. If this happens each is inclined to think that the other doesn’t want to understand, & there are endless misunderstandings. This of course doesn’t improve the friendliness of the intercourse. I could go into details about us, but I don’t want to. The general situation however is often this that one man thinks that the other could understand if he only wanted to, hence he gets rude, or nasty (according to the temperament) & thinks that he is only kicking back, & so it starts. –
In order to understand why it’s impossible, or almost impossible, for certain people to understand each other, one has to think not of the few occasions on which they meet, but of the differences of their whole lives; & there can be nothing more different than your interests & mine, & your movements of thought & mine. Only by a real tour de force it was possible for us to talk to each other years ago when we were younger. And if I may compare you to a mine in which I worked to get some precious ore, I must say that my labour was extremely hard; though also that what I got out of it was well worth the labour. But later, when we no longer could give each other anything (which does not mean that each of us had got all the other had), it was natural that only an almost complete lack of understanding should remain; &, at least on my part, for a long time a wish that an understanding should again be possible.
I believe that part of the trouble was an extreme slowness on my part to recognize & appreciate a change. I often say to myself & to others “Things have changed”, but at the same time I go on acting (perhaps from weakness) as though they hadn’t. That leads to lot of trouble.
This letter sounds rather professional!
Yours 
Ludwig Wittgenstein 
The older I grow the more I realize how terribly difficult it is for people to understand each other, & I think that what misleads one is the fact that they all look so much like each other. If some people looked like elephants & others like cats, or fish, one wouldn’t expect them to understand each other & things would look much more like what they really are.

