Siglum: b1949_06_04_an_MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Norman Malcolm, 4. 6. 1949

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 119f.; WiC, S. 444). 

Text: 
4.6.49.
Ross's Hotel
Parkgate St[r]eet
Dublin
Dear Norman,
Thanks for your letter of May 30th. When I arrived here 3 weeks ago I went to see my doctor & he had my blood examined. They found that I had a severe anaemia of a rather unusual kind. It was suspected that I had a gro[w]th in my stomack but the X-ray definitely showed that there is no such think inside me. I'm being given a lot of iron & liverextract & am getting better slowly. I think I shall certainly be able to sail with the Queen Mary on July 21st. There is, however, the question how far my anaemia will affect my ability to discuss. At present I am quite unable to do any philosophy & I don't think I'd be strong enough to have even a moderately decent discussion. In fact at present I'm sure I couldn't do it. But of course it's possible that by the end of July I may have recovered sufficiently for my brain to work again. I intend to go to Cambridge in about 2 weeks & to dictate some stuff if I feel strong enough. That will show me where I stand & I'll let you know the result. Also I shall probably have a new blood examination done by them & that'll also show something, in particular the rate at which I'm progressing. I know that you'd extend your hospitality to me even if I were completely dull & stupid, but I wouldn't want to be a mere dead weight in your house. I want to feel that I can at least give a little for so much kindness. ‒ Anyhow, I hope that by July 21st I'll be a good deal more lively than now. (D.v.) ‒ The American Consul here has been pretty decent so far, but it turns out that I shall have to get the visa from the London Consul because I haven't resided in Ireland long enough. I hope that part of the matter will go moderately smoothely. ‒ I know that Miss Anscombe & Smythies have not forgotten you, but I understand that it's difficult for them to write. I hardly ever hear from them, either. ‒ I very much look forward to seeing you! Give my love to Lee & Ray.
Affectionately
Ludwig
P.S. I'm getting a ticket from New York to Ithaca here, so it isn't necessary that one of you should come & fetch me, but if it could be done without difficulty I'd be very glad if you, or Lee did come to meet me at New York as I'm such a complete stranger & exceedingly clumsy these days.

