Siglum: b1941_01_08_an_SraffaPiero

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Piero Sraffa, 8. 1. 1941

sourceDesc:  Abschrift McGuinness, Kopie in BA.  Publiziert (WiC, S. 338). 

Text: 
Trin. Coll. 
8.1.41. 
Dear Sraffa,
I’m afraid this is going to be a longish letter; but I think it’s better that I should write it badly and long-windedly than not at all. Last night, in your room, I made a remark which I think you may not have understood, as I expressed myself badly, but which I want you to understand. I said that my brain had deteriorated & I added that you, too, didn’t think properly – as though I thought these two things were on the same level. – This however I don’t think. The deterioration of my thinking powers seems to me to be something permanent, as though it were due to physiological causes; the decline which I seem to observe in your thinking I believe to be a thing about which something can be done & to which, therefore, your attention should be drawn. This decline I seem to see I did not recognise as such until fairly recently. Its symptom is that you are unable now to stand decently by strong contradiction, the contradiction of someone, I mean, who mistrusts your reasoning – which reasoning seems to me to be very often muddled & superficial. So, of course, everybody’s thinking tends to be: but you used to take contradiction as a medicine; & by contradiction I don’t mean the expression of polite disagreement but a challenge! You did not always take it graciously (but who would?) but you used not when contradicted to kick with forelegs & hindlegs like some animals. When first I noticed this kicking, which consists in talking extremely offensively, I could not interpret it rightly (& perhaps I don’t now, but I think I do). One might object to this saying: “How can W. judge Sraffa’s reaction to people contradicting him, as he has never seen Sraffa’s reaction to anyone but himself?” – My answer is that, in my opinion, a man who can’t stick a strenuous discussion with me, 1000 to 1, can’t stick a strenuous discussion at all. I don’t mean that I don’t often have a very disagreable & tiresome way of talking, or that this isn’t reprehensible, but that, in my experience, people who wanted to thrash out a question properly, put up with my more nasty qualities because they found me very useful.
It therefore is my opinion that it isn’t simply these qualities which in a discussion with me exasperate you – to the point of making a deep discussion now impossible – but that the cause of this is, to put it bluntly, that you have in some way gone soft. – Why this should be so I don’t know; but I have thought that it might perhaps be due to the fact that many more people admire you now than used to a few years ago: & when we talked about the bad effects which admiration had on Prof. Hardy I did not only think of myself as another example but also of you.
I may, of course, be all wrong, & if I am – well, no harm is done by my having told you what I think. If I’m not, however, no harm is done either so it follows, logically, that no harm’s done anyway.
I am with good feelings,
yours 
Ludwig Wittgenstein 

