Siglum: b1944_03_24_an_HuttRowland

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Rowland Hutt, 24. 3. 1944

sourceDesc:  Original an der ÖNB (Autogr. 1280/32-2); Kopie im BA. 

Text: 
c/o Mrs Mann
10 Langland Rd.
Mumbles, Swansea
24.3.44.
Dear Roland,
Thanks for your letter, dated 22./3.. I wish I knew more about military matters. I can't understand e.g., what a psychologist has to do with your medical category in the Army. Surely there's nothing wrong with you mentally! (Or if there is the psychologist won't know it.) One thing seems to me clear. If, as it seems, you can't get a commission (at least not now) & if, for whatever reason, they don't put you into a lab. or theater, then the only thing for you to do is to do the job which you've got really well; so well that you don't lose your self-respect in doing it. For every job can be done really well. I don't know if you understand me. It is an intelligent thing to do to use whatever means one has to get a better, or more suitable job. But if those means fail then there comes a moment when it no longer makes sense always to complain & to kick, but when you've got to settle down. You're like a man who moves into a room & sais "oh, this is only temporary" & doesn't unpack his trunks. Now this is all right ‒ for a time. But if he can't find a better place, or can't make up his mind to risk moving perhaps into another town altogether, then the thing to do is to unpack his trunks & settle down whether the room's good or not. For anything's better than to live in a state of waiting. Three years in a hospital in India might be hell, & I hope to God that won't be your lot, but this war will end, & the most important thing is what sort of a person you'll be when it's over. That's to say: when it's over you ought to be a man. And you won't be if you don't train yourself now. The first thing to do is: stop kicking when it's fruitless. It seems to me you ought either apply to be posted somewhere nearer the front & just risk it, or, if you don't want to do that, sit down where you are, don't think of moving but only of doing that work well which you've got now. ‒ I'll be quite frank with you & say that I think it might be better for you not to be within reach of your family. Your family is, of course, soothing, but it may also have a softening effect. And for certain sores you want to make the skin harder, not softer. I mean, I have an idea (perhaps it's as wrong as hell) that your family makes it more difficult, or impossible, for you to settle down & get down to your work without looking right or left. Also you should perhaps look a little more inside you, & this also is perhaps impossible with your family around. In case you show this letter to Lotte & she wildly disagrees with me I'll say this: maybe she wouldn't be a good wife if she didn't disagree, but that doesn't mean that what I tell you mayn't be true!
Good wishes, as always.
Ludwig

