Siglum: b1951_03_19_an_MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Norman Malcolm, 19. 3. 1951

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 132f; WiC, S. 476). 

Text: 
76 Storeys Way
Cambridge
19.3.51.
Dear Norman,
Thanks for your letter. I'm feeling much better now than I did a month ago. I have hardly any pain. The improvement is probably due to the deep x-ray treatment I took for a few weeks. (This time it wasn't my shoulders but my spine that got the rays). I am of course very weak & there seems no doubt that this isn't going to change for the better as time goes on. I hardly think that I'll be on this earth when you come to Cambridge in Autumn '52. Still, one doesn't know.
I am not depressed in the least, by the way. ‒ I'm very glad you liked the Rommel book. I looked at it quite recently again & was impressed again by the thoroughly decent way in which it's written. Such books are few & far between. The author, where he disagrees with other people of high rank (as on p.p. 160-161), expresses himself very cautiously, but one always knows what he thinks & what he would say if he could let himself go. ‒ I can see that the question of what to do with Ray while you're in England is serious & I can't suggest anything at all. But there's still plenty of time to think about it. I'm glad that v. Wright proposed you. He told me about it a few weeks ago. ‒ In a way it might be good to bring Ray to Europe (though not to enter him in a school) because it might open his eyes. But on the other hand it might shut them, & so I just don't know at all. ‒ I saw Moore yesterday & we talked philosophy. But it was no good because I was far too dull & hazy. When I'm alone I am sometimes a bit brighter. ‒ The other day I saw a laudatory review of two philosophical books in the "New Statesman". One was by a man Toulmin, who come to my classes while you were in Cambridge, I think; the other seemed to contain articles by Wisdom, Waismann, Ryle & other charlatans. The review I read particularly praised one remark of Waismann's which came straight out of my lectures. I'd like to see a review some day which debunks these people.
Give my love to Lee & all my best wishes to everybody who can make use of them.
Affectionately
Ludwig

