Siglum: b1950_12_01_an_MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Norman Malcolm, 1. 12. 1950

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA.  Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 129f.; WiC, S. 469). 

Text: 
27 St. John Street
Oxford
1.12.50.
Dear Norman,
Thanks for your letter of Nov. 3rd. I found it when I came back from Norway about 10 days ago. I was away 5 weeks & before that I was illish for about a month. In Norway the friend who went with me fell ill with bronchitis twice. So there was no end of trouble & I postponed writing to my friends from one day to the other. This doesn't mean that we didn't enjoy our journey, for we did, & we had wonderful weather. I had intended to do some work but I didn't do any. I may possibly go back to Norway before long & try to work; it's the only place I know where I can have real quiet. Of course it's possible that I'm no longer able to do any decent research, but it's certainly worth while finding out if I am or not. Please don't talk about this plan of mine for the present. I haven't yet decided, & although several people know of it, there are others I don't want to know.
I have given Miss Anscombe, Smythies & Bouwsma your kind regards. It's always very pleasant to see Bouwsma. He & his wife are such kind & natural people. I am very glad that he sees Smythies regularly; I can't imagin that he sees many people in this place worth seeing. He also has had a good many discussions with Miss A.. ‒ You're quite right, a mathematician by name of Turing attended my lectures in '39 (they were pretty poor!) & it's probably the same man who wrote the article you mention. I havent read it but I imagine it's no leg-pull. Von Wright is in Finland & is coming back to Cambridge in January. I don't know if I shall see him. I saw my doctor there the other day & looked up Moore. He seemed pretty well but says he must take it very easy because of his heart.
Give my love to Lee & remember me to Doney & Dr Mooney. I should very much like to see them again though it's very unlikely that I will.
My health is not too bad but I am very dull & stupid indeed (as this letter shows).
Affectionately
Ludwig

