Siglum: b1950_04_17_an_MalcolmNorman

Title: Von Ludwig Wittgenstein an Norman Malcolm, 17. 4. 1950

sourceDesc:  Original an der Trinity College Library; Kopie im BA. Publiziert (Malcolm Memoir, S. 127f.; WiC, S. 462). 

Text: 
As from Trinity College
Cambridge
17.4.50.
Dear Norman,
Thank you very much for your letter of April 11th. It was very kind of you to take the trouble of approaching a director of the Rockefeller Foundation on my behalf. I will try to tell you as clearly as possible what I think of the matter.
The thought of being able to live where I like, of not having to be a burden or a nuisance to others, of doing philosophy when my nature inclines me to do it is, of course, pleasant for me, as it would be for anyone else who wants to do philosophy. But I could not accept money from the Rockefeller Foundation unless the directors knew the complete truth about me. The truth is this.
a) I have not been able to do any sustained good work since the beginning of March 1949. b) Even before that date I could not work well for more than 6 or 7 months a year. c) As I'm getting older my thoughts become markedly less forceful & crystallize more rarely & I get tired very much more easily. d) My health is in a somewhat labile state owing to a constant slight anaemia which inclines me to catch infections. This further diminishes the chance of my doing really good work. e) Though it's impossible for me to make any definite predictions, it seems to me likely that my mind will never again work as vigorously as it did, say, 14 months ago. f) I cannot promise to publish anything during my lifetime.
I believe that as long as I live & as often as the state of my mind permits it I will think about philosophical problems & try to write about them. I also believe that much of what I wrote in the past 15 or 20 years may be of interest to people when it's published. But it is, never the less, perfectly possible that all that I'm going to produce will be flat, uninspired & uninteresting. There are many examples of people who did excellent work when they were young, & very dull work indeed when they got old.
I think this is all I can say about it. I believe you should show this letter to the director you approached about me. It is obviously impossible to accept a grant under false pretences, & you may unintentionally have presented my case in too rosy a light.
My health at present is pretty good. I'm doing some work but I get stuck over simple things & almost all I write is pretty dull. ‒ I may go to Oxford soon & try to live in Miss Anscombe's house. I like to stay with the von Wrights but the two children are noisy & I need quiet. I wish I weren't so sensitive! ‒ The address Trinity College will always find me & so, for that matter, will v. Wright's address.
I think I'd better not try to write to you anything about 'motives' today, all the more as I'm not clear about it.
Give my love to Lee.
Affectionately
Ludwig

